A/N: Can't wait to begin this story! My other stories will be updated fairly soon!
 That's what they were calling me. This school seems to be normal; I've made many friends. I think I've become one of the 'popular' kids, but I really don't mind at all. The girls talk about gossips, and the guys talk about shags. It's like any other school right? I haven't made any true friends, but I seem to be invited to all the parties. I just pretend because there's no point in causing commotion, but I've noticed something.
Well not something.
I've noticed Him, and I am intrigued.
It seems like no one likes him, no one will be nice to him. I see him in the hallways, and I see him leaving class a lot. I find myself staring at his vacated seat when he's not in class, and I find myself searching him out in the masses of students passing by every day. He's a mystery, and I must admit that I am very curious. I've never been good with handling my curiosity, so today I decided it was enough.
Sitting down at lunch beside Bree, I asked the question that's been on my mind. "The kid that's in our science class, that you call freak, why doesn't anyone like him?" Bree seemed to look at me like I was crazy, and I rose my eyebrows and played with my shirt sleeve when I noticed everyone at our table stop with what they were doing.
"His name is Sherlock Holmes, and he stalks people."
"He knows everything about everyone, and he's a bloody creep."
"He actually tried to talk to me last year."
"Never let him touch you, his skin is like ice."
"Total creep. Stay away from him."
"I heard he's killed over fifteen people, and he hasn't been found out yet."
My mind was racing as I followed the herd of cattle that were students from lunch. Why did everyone hate this guy so much? I decided to make my own assumption, so making up my mind I went back to class. I will figure out this mystery. Everyone needs someone, even if he isn't human like everyone says.
I'm curious about this Sherlock Holmes.
A/N: This is the beginning of a new story. It will be a teenlock, and it will involve an oc. This is the pre-face, and I was wondering what you guys would think.
