Molly's hands were trembling as she meticulously looked at every part of the body staring blankly at her. The man had been dead for nearly three days and the cause of death was undetermined. Since, Sherlock was 'back from the dead' as many would call it, she could easily call him up and ask if he could look at a body for her. But she didn't want to do that. She couldn't do that. She was hiding a secret, and she knew with time Sherlock would eventually figure it out, just like he figured out John's middle name, or what 'The Woman's' password was. But this secret was something she really didn't want to share.
Her mind drifted off as she put her bloody scalpel down and carefully took off her latex gloves and put her head in her hands. She felt so ashamed. Keeping a secret from a man who could know anything about you in the blink of an eye. The images from the first night a few months ago quickly jumped into her head as she sat down on a lab chair and tried to steady her breathing.
This was the first act of violence Molly had encountered. She ended up staring at the ring on her left hand and wondered how she had gotten into this mess.
Molly must have closed her eyes for more than a few minutes before she felt hands on her shoulder shaking her. Before she knew what she was doing she immediately jumped and took a few steps back.
"H-Hey, I'm sorry." John's hands raised in surrender as he looked up and down at Molly, she looked like a mess, her hair was greasy and she looked constantly on edge. John raised an eyebrow at Molly, hoping she could explain herself.
"S-Sorry," Molly muttered as she rubbed her neck, remembering there was some bruises Tom had left and she didn't want anyone to see them.
"Molly, you need to go home. You are stressed, I know it's around the holiday time and you have more bodies than you usually do, but please. For your well being go home. You have a wedding to plan."
Those words stung. The fact that Molly was going to marry Tom in less than three months scared her. She didn't want to marry a face that had been in constant nightmares, but she had to. Or else she'd probably end up being the one autopsied and not doing the autopsy.
"N-No, it's fine." Molly waved off John and then quickly plastered a smile to her face. She had to act like nothing was wrong, like she always did. "Sorry, I um, just slacking. Toby kept me up all night and I didn't get much sleep." She was surprised that Tom had gotten her to be such a good liar.
John quickly dismissed it as he read out a text that Sherlock sent him for things to pick up at the morgue for another experiment. "Sherlock needs a dozen fingers. Four from smokers, four from recreational marijuana users, and four who died of natural causes and leave out the thumbs. I don't know what the hell he is using them for but he needed them asap."
Molly gave a slight nod at the directions and went over to the fridge as she dug out what John had told her to get. As she dug out the various fingers and put them in a bag she quickly noticed that John was right beside her and she gave a small jump. "H-Here you go." Molly muttered as she quickly shoved the fingers into his hands.
Before she could run anywhere else a hand grabbed her shoulder and she jumped.
"Molly, is there something wrong?" Molly forced herself to look into John's eyes as she heard those words. How was she supposed to respond? 
"No." She said more bravely then she thought. "Just stress."
The hands quickly let go of her shoulders and she took in a steady breath. "Okay, Molly. If you need anything just now Sherlock and I are here for you." There was a reassuring smile and soon John was out of the morgue.
Molly's hands were shaking again as she closed the fridge and cleared everything up. She rolled the body into the fridge and finished up her paperwork. Once she finished everything she was supposed to do for the day her mind drifted to back with her encounter with John and she frowned.
There comes a time where you have two choices. 1. Lie to save yourself or 2. Lie to save someone else. This is one of those times where the latter was the best option for her.
