Hello, friends. It's been many years and I've come back to finish this story. I've rewritten it and will be posting the rewritten chapters weekly until this story is complete. We're looking at around 20 chapters, some short and other lengthy. The focus will be through Molly and Mycroft's POV. Warning: there are hints of BDSM in this story, and some later chapters may be marked M for mature content. Please read and review. Your feedback is what keeps this going.
It was a disaster. Molly knew this the moment she took off her coat, and Sherlock dismissed her efforts with a steely and brief look. The others in the room recognized her blatant attempt at a "done-up Molly," except him. Sherlock reacted like her efforts didn't exist, just as he would at St. Barts as if she wore her usual khakis, oversized sweater, and loafers.
'
The negative and self-deprecating thoughts presented themselves in the back of her mind and fed her anxiety and embarrassment. She wanted to disappear and forget her pathetic attempt at seducing Sherlock Holmes.
If time travel existed, she'd zip back to the past, decline the party invitation with some excuse using her work, cat, or non-existent "other friends," and stay at home lounging in her pajamas and warm socks. However, time travel didn't exist, and all Molly could do was live with the results of her choices, no matter how hurtful they were. It took every ounce in her being as she attempted to mingle with the other partygoers and ignored the fact that she stood out like a sore thumb amongst them.
Her appearance in a black dress, a bow in her hair, red lipstick, and heels was in contrast to the others' casual garb. She assumed everyone would be dressed up in semi-formal outfits that included a cocktail dress and heels for the ladies, and button-up blouses, dress pants, and loafers for the gentlemen. Who was she to know that holiday parties at a "friend's" home were not formal at all? This was the first-holiday social gathering outside of those that took place at work, to begin with.
'
she forced a smile on her face and feigned a confident posture to the best Molly could, as she stood near the punch bowl to pour herself a drink.
A few moments later, John and Lestrade complimented her appearance, with a warmth that felt like it was really a pity for her situation. '
, 
'
Sherlock berated her for her attire, her lip color, and her breasts. It was uncalled for and hurtful. When he recognized this, he tried to remedy the situation at the behest of others. She experienced dread and awkwardness as he brushed off his callousness towards her with a simple "I'm sorry."
He kissed her cheek-a very light peck- to thank her for the present she gave him. It was fleeting and empty. She knew it from the stern look in his eyes and the abruptness in which he left her to attend to more exciting things than her wounded ego and heart.
Molly felt robbed, discarded of her self-worth, and exposed for her ridiculous infatuation.
The others continued to compliment her as she attempted to mingle, be cheerful and appear unfazed by Sherlock's dismissal; however, it was challenging to do so. Sherlock's hurtful words echoed and scarred her. They burned and scorched until the anxiety and uneasiness she felt in her chest turned into disappointment and anger. She was angry at Sherlock but also angry at herself for being so foolish. She realized at that moment, as she watched Sherlock from afar as he talked to Watson, that she was over him. Even if he had apologized, which was considered a difficult feat for him, Molly found something in her change at that moment. Her attraction towards him wilted.
Molly barely finished her drink when she bid the party goodbye. Lestrade offered to walk her to her car—a gentleman that he was—and she was sure he would talk to her about how Sherlock was a jerk or just "being Sherlock"—but she was tired and didn't want to hear them. She offered him a slight smile and shook her head 'no' at his offer.
She was the first to leave the Christmas party in 221B. Every step she took down the stairs brought on with it a clarity that she never felt before. She let out a steady breath when she reached her car. Molly sat in it for a moment as she watched Lestrade retreat up the stairs. She felt a pain in her chest and knew it was a mix of emotions she wished she didn't have to deal with.
'
She must have been delusional to have dreamt the outcome of the night would be Sherlock finally seeing her as an attractive woman, ready to jump in his arms no matter what.
'
She squared her shoulders and steadied herself. She pursed her lips and tried to prevent them from quivering as she held in a sob that threatened to come out. '
she told herself, '
She wasn't sure if her words were comforting or just plain self-deprecating.
