The sofa and chairs were pushed against the walls and a card table was set up in the center of the sitting room. Four people sat on four different chairs all borrowed from Mrs. Hudson in flat 221b. Molly was giggling into her elbow.
"Oi! I am not trading with you Sherlock. This is the fifth game we've played. I think it's someone elses turn to win," Lestrade said.
Molly smiled nervously from behind her cards, eyes darting between Sherlock and Lestrade.
"It's not my fault that this game is ridiculously predictable. You insisted on using the beginners map setup for every game. I used a fairly simple strategy of starting with one harbor and building settlements quickly," Sherlock replied.
"That's what I did. And I didn't win," John replied.
"That's because you concentrated on trading when you should be upgrading your settlements."
"I think he's cheating," Lestrade muttered.
Molly ducked her head as her cheeks turned the color of fire. Beneath the table her small hand crept to Sherlock's leg. His deft fingers quickly took the card she proferred.
"No he's not. He's just a bloody genius," John grumbled.
"Another game?" Sherlock asked, leaning on his elbows and putting his hands under his chin.
"This game isn't over yet. Idiot," John replied affectionately.
"It is now," Sherlock said "No need to count, Lestrade. I have the most points."
"Bloody hell!" Lestrade threw his cards onto the table.
"Guess I'm in last place again," Molly said.
John glanced over at her. Molly looked extremely pleased for someone who'd just lost five consecutive games. Her bright eyes kept glancing over at Sherlock, who was completely ignoring her. Back and forth John's eyes shifted. He wouldn't. He didn't need to. Sherlock would never press Molly into a compromising position simply to win a game.
Would he?
Sherlock smirked as he shuffled the cards.
Oh, he would alright.
They each rolled the dice to determine who would go first. John's hand tensed at his side, waiting for an opportune moment. It was Lestrade's turn and normally they would all be focused on him. John didn't watch Sherlock. Sherlock was too good an actor to give himself away. Molly was not. She glanced nervously around her, took one of her cards, and slipped it under the table. John's hand shot out so fast Molly gave a yelp. He held up the offending wrist and the card spun to the floor.
Lestrade's mouth dropped open.
"You bastard!" he said.
Sherlock shrugged.
"It's as good a tactic as any," he replied.
"You bloody bloody bastard!"
"There goes game night then," John said.
"I don't think so. We'll find a game we can play where he can't cheat. Same time next Tuesday, yeah? We'll do it at my flat," Lestrade said.
Molly didn't speak as she left. She ducked her head and hurried away like someone was following her.
