Molly regarded the odd text from an unfamiliar number with a mixture of confusion and concern. It wasn't the first time she'd gotten bizarre messages in relation to her work, but no one had ever requested body parts before.
Although, to be honest, she was more concerned that whoever had sent the text knew her name.
She looked up as one of the morgue attendants wheeled in the latest cadaver, she glanced briefly back down at the text before she set her phone aside and reached for her gloves.
A little over an hour later, Molly was in the middle of weighing the vital organs for yet another autopsy when Sherlock burst into the room.
Despite the fact that the consulting detective had started using the morgue and its associated facilities fairly regularly, she was still getting used to his abrupt appearances.
"Hello Sherlock," she greeted him brightly, covering her surprise at seeing him behind a sunny smile. "What can I do for you?" she continued, turning back to note the weight of the liver she'd placed on the scales.
Sherlock shot her an odd look, "Didn't you get my message?"
Molly's brow furrowed as she glanced at him over her shoulder, "What message?"
"I sent you a request from some toes," he stated flatly with a hint of impatience.
Molly forgot all about the liver as she turned to gape at him, "That was 
?"
"Obviously."
"How did you get my number?" she spluttered, unsure whether to be flattered or not that he'd gone to the trouble to find it out.
"You're part of a small team," Sherlock sniffed, "it wasn't difficult."
Molly's shoulders slumped slightly, "Oh."
Sherlock continued to regard her expectantly, "Shall I get the toes myself?" he asked after a moment.
Molly shook herself, "No, I'll get them," she replied, trying not to sound too eager as she removed her gloves and led the way to the lab.
"I still don't know how you're able to take these," she commented as she pulled on a new pair of gloves and retrieved a jar of toes.
"I'd say friends in high places but 'contacts' would probably be more appropriate," Sherlock replied as he took the jar off her and regarded its contents.
Molly nodded and went to throw her gloves into a hazard bin, "For the record, Sherlock, it would help if you 
 your texts."
She looked up as she got no response and frowned at the empty room.
"Thanks for the toes, Molly," she muttered to herself as she made her way back to the morgue.
After her shift ended, Molly was surprised to find another text on her phone from the same unknown number.
"I wonder what body parts he wants now," she murmured as she opened the message, making a mental note to save his number.
Her mild consternation melted into a smile as she read it.
It wasn't the thank you she was hoping for, but at least it proved that he didn't completely ignore her.
