 
Detective Inspector Gregory Lestrade shut down the computer monitor, removed his glasses, leaned back in his desk chair, and stretched his arms above his head. He had just been going over Dr. John Watson's service record and re-reading his Internet blog, including the comments. In a minute, Dr. Watson's former army nurse, ex-Sergeant Bill Murray, was going to arrive. He was going to fill Lestrade in on the details that the service record had left out. Mycroft Holmes, Sherlock's older brother who worked as a civil servant, was also going to send him all of the info that he had acquired on the retired army doctor.
The grey-haired detective inspector glanced at the half-full coffee mug that sat on his desk. Since little beads of perspiration had begun to form on his forehead, he got up to turn down the thermostat. Upon returning to his desk, Lestrade peered down at his watch. Murray should arrive any moment now. The heater's soft hum switched off.
 Lestrade thought. He shook his head, remembering…
have
he
do
A knock on the door startled Lestrade out of his reverie. "Come in," he said.
The office door creaked open, and a man with a short haircut and a military posture entered the room and stopped in front of Lestrade's desk in an "at-ease" position. He was wearing an unbuttoned black corduroy coat over a dark-brown polyester shirt, and on the third finger of his right hand gleamed a plain gold-coloured band—apparently, a wedding ring.
Lestrade rose to his feet and approached him. "Hello. I'm Detective Inspector Gregory Lestrade," he said.
"And I'm Bill Murray, ex-sergeant, formerly of the Fifth Northumberland Fusiliers." The man extended his hand, and Lestrade shook it. Bill struggled out of his coat, and Lestrade gestured toward the chair in front of his desk.
"Have a seat," Lestrade said. Bill draped his coat over the back of the chair and took his seat. As the man perched straight-backed on the chair in front of the desk, the detective inspector returned to his own seat and wiped his forehead. "I apologize for the heat in this office, Mr. Murray. I had to turn down the thermostat just a moment ago because it was getting too hot. It shouldn't take long for my office to get comfortable."
"I don't mind." Murray smiled. "As a former army nurse, I'm used to uncomfortable temperatures."
"I'm sure you are." Lestrade chuckled. He folded his arms across his desk, resting them on its smooth, polished surface, and glanced down at his coffee mug. From outside his office door, the faint ringing of a telephone penetrated his ears. "Would you like me to order you a cup of coffee?"
"Thank you, no." Bill smiled again.
"I want to thank you for coming here to help me out with this, Mr. Murray," Lestrade said. He held up the crisp white sheets of paper stacked neatly on his desk and smiled. "This is truly an impressive service record, and it has told me a great deal about Dr. Watson's military career, but it has not told me everything I need to know. In fact, the information about Dr. John Watson's injury and its aftermath is quite sparse, to say the least. A government official is sending me more information about Dr. Watson's history, but in the meantime, I need to know whatever you can tell me."
He pressed the 
 and 
 buttons on a digital voice recorder on his desk, turning it on. "You understand, don't you, that this discussion is being recorded?"
"Of course." Bill nodded. "What do you need to know?"
Lestrade gazed at the bottom sheet in John's service record, which currently lay at the top of the stack. "All I know from this service record is that Dr. Watson was shot by an Afghani sniper in the Helmand Province last July, while he was treating some casualties in a war zone. That he was evacuated to Camp Bastion, and then airlifted to a hospital here in the U.K. That he endured some kind of—I don't know—some kind of massive infection. A life-threatening post-operative infection, to be precise, followed by osteomyelitis and a brain abscess resulting in a couple of seizures that were possibly epileptic, this info tells me. And it states that all of this resulted in post-traumatic stress disorder. And that Dr. Watson was labelled unfit for duty and given an honourable discharge a few months ago." He paused. "I also know, from something Dr. Watson told Sherlock on the evening I met him, that he had come 
 close to death."
"And what did John tell Sherlock?"
Lestrade sighed. "That he didn't have to imagine what he would say, if he had been murdered and was facing his last few seconds of life. And that it would be, 'Please, God, let me live.'"
Murray nodded, a sad look on his face. "All of that is true. I suppose you want me to fill you in on what happened, since I was there."
Lestrade inclined his head, and then folded his arms across his desk. "That's right. Everything you can tell me, please." He took a sip of his coffee.
Sighing, Bill leaned back against the chair and started fingering his wedding ring with his left hand. "Well, it's all true, what John said, and what you read in his service record. Captain Watson and I were on a retrieval mission on July 27th of last year
, along with several combat medical technicians who had flown out from Camp Bastion. John and I were stationed at FOB Hamidullah at the time—Hamidullah's a British forward operating base in the Helmand Province. We were treating some casualties, and there had been a raging battle going on around us—a bad skirmish five kilometres west of Sangin. There was a lull in the fighting; the shooting had stopped. John was in the process of stabilizing a soldier whose leg—his right leg—had just been torn apart by an IED, so that he and I would be able to evacuate him out of the combat zone to our army unit, where he would be stabilized further and then transferred onward to Bastion for more treatment. As his nurse, I was helping him. He had just managed to finish the job when it happened."
Bill paused. "Without warning, several gunshots rang out from over the hill behind us. The first two of those shots appeared to be shot almost simultaneously, and the others all followed in rapid succession. It was an Afghani sniper, an insurgent, firing at us. Instantly, John dropped face-down on the ground; even with his armour on, I could tell that blood was oozing out of the entry wound on the back of his left shoulder. I could see more blood coming out from underneath his chest plate. He had been shot with an armour-piercing bullet. A nearby medic immediately began to attend the soldier that John had treated, while I turned my attention to John. It was clear to me that his shoulder was haemorrhaging; his subclavian artery had been punctured. The bullet had entered from the back near the joint, Detective Inspector, destroying his left shoulder. It had shattered the bones in his shoulder and punctured his left lung, and it had just narrowly missed his heart. He was in imminent danger of bleeding to death, so I had to act quickly."
Lestrade's brow furrowed in concern. "What about the sniper?"
"The soldiers immediately called in an air strike which killed the insurgent."
"I see." Lestrade nodded. "Go on, please."
Bill scratched his neck. "The first thing I had to do was to remove his armour, so I could treat the wound, and that's what I did, while one of our colleagues radioed for an extra evac helicopter. The two helicopters that were already there had just been loaded with gravely wounded casualties, you see; there was no room for another patient. After I had finished removing John's armour, I pulled out a pressure bandage and pressed it against the gunshot wound. And I packed the exit wound with some specialized gauze packing; it was permeated with coagulant gel." He shook his head. "His scapula was shattered, and his clavicle was reduced to splinters. There was significant damage to his soft tissue, ligaments, and nerves. In short, even though the bullet had missed the joint, his entire left shoulder was destroyed." Lestrade winced. "Although I didn't know this right away, some of the nerves in his brachial plexus were visibly damaged. Since John is strongly left-sided, that was 
 a good thing." Pain etched the former army nurse's face at the memory.
"The good news is, none of the cords were severed; his left arm would have put out of commission permanently if that had happened. But shards of John's clavicle were sticking out of his wound, just like quills. I could see bits of muscle and bone in his wound. He was in real agony, Detective Inspector, terrible agony; I could see it on his face and hear it in the moans he fought so hard to suppress, so I had to give him a shot of morphine while we waited to be evacuated."
Lestrade winced. "I'm sure you had to, Mr. Murray. Please continue."
Murray grimaced. "The extra evac helicopter landed five minutes after my colleague had radioed for it, and we loaded Captain Watson and the other remaining patients on board. There was no time to fly him or the patient we had tended back to the field hospital at our FOB
; we had to take them both immediately to Bastion. Before we arrived there, John's breathing changed; it developed a gurgle to it. A wheezing gurgle, to be more precise; he also started coughing up and choking on fluid from his left lung. He was also aspirating blood, Detective Inspector, and his blood pressure was dangerously low. In short, he was dying. I ended up having to give him an oxygen mask because his respiration was becoming increasingly laboured and ineffectual, and I also had to insert a chest tube into his left lung to remove some of the blood and fluid out of his chest, and help him breathe." He paused. "Unfortunately—" The former army nurse bit his lip. "—specks of blood started appearing on the inside of his oxygen mask while we were in the helicopter." Lestrade winced again. "Anyway, Captain Watson lost consciousness in the helicopter, and then he flat-lined—went into cardiac arrest—just five minutes after we were in the air; his heart stopped. I had to administer CPR, to get it going again."
Leaning forward, Bill rested his elbows on the desk. He spent a moment rubbing his fingertip over its smooth, unyielding surface before he continued. "Once, before we loaded him onto the medevac chopper—and then again, while we were on that helicopter ride—Captain Watson managed to whisper the very words he told Sherlock he would say, if he were dying: 'Please, God, let me live.' He whispered it more than once, Detective Inspector, in the helicopter; I just managed to understand what he was saying. He knew what was at stake, and he must have known he was dying. While we were en-route to Bastion, he whispered that prayer for the last time just before he lost consciousness; it was shortly afterwards that he stopped breathing, and I had to use an amu bag to force him to breathe. And it was less than a minute after 
 that John's heart stopped beating, and I had to administer CPR."
Lestrade shook his head. He remembered the moment during the recent serial-suicides case when Sherlock had asked Dr. Watson what he would have said, if he had been murdered:
you
you'd
have
It was becoming clear to Lestrade, as of now, what Dr. Watson had meant. He reached up to brush a few strands of grey hair from his now-dry forehead. The heater's soft background hum resumed.
"He never did regain consciousness after that. Not before he was airlifted to Selly Oak Hospital in Birmingham, anyway, a couple of nights later," Bill continued. "It took us over 10 minutes, in total, to reach the field hospital at Bastion, where Captain Watson and the other soldier, the one we'd treated, were immediately rushed into emergency surgery. They operated on his clavicle and scapula, worked to reconstruct his shoulder, and repaired his artery, and they inserted another tube into his left lung while they were at it. They inserted a couple of fixation plates, and some pins and a couple of screws, in his shoulder. And they put him on a ventilator."
He paused. "I later learned that John went into cardiac arrest again while he was on the operating table. They not only gave him CPR, but they also gave him several units of whole blood before continuing to repair his shoulder. And a few more units while he was in the recovery room."
"I see." Lestrade nodded and sipped his coffee.
"It was a few days afterward that John was stabilized enough to be transferred to Selly Oak Hospital, where he was placed in ICU. He was still unconscious when he was airlifted on a military transport plane back to Great Britain; he still had a chest tube; and he was still on a ventilator. I really think that once John regained consciousness in Selly Oak and was taken off the ventilator, he was fully expecting to return to Afghanistan as soon as his shoulder and lung had healed. Had serious complications not set in, he would have."
Bill reached up to slick back his hair. "The first complication he suffered consisted of a massive septic infection, post-operative. An extremely serious, life-threatening case of sepsis, Detective Inspector, septic shock; he started developing the beginning symptoms at Bastion, and then it came on him overnight, his second night in Selly Oak. John ran a dangerously high fever, 39.4 degrees Centigrade, starting out. His heart rate and his breathing rate both increased, and he was confused, mentally. Some of his organs functioned poorly. He had to be kept in the intensive care ward, and he had to put on a ventilator once more. The doctors had to abrade both of his bullet wounds, which made the damage worse. They had to keep him undressed except for some hospital-issued paper pants, and they had to keep him under a cooling blanket. He spent the next few weeks fighting for his life; several times during that time, he had febrile seizures, caused by his high fever. It really looked as if he was going to die. Fortunately, a new antibiotic was approved for fighting sepsis in mid-August; his doctor prescribed it for him. It saved his life."
He shook his head. "As if that wasn't enough, Captain Watson also soon began exhibiting symptoms of osteomyelitis in his right leg. Fortunately, by then, his sepsis was well on the wane. At that point, though, further surgery could be delayed no longer; he underwent three operations at Selly Oak to further repair and reconstruct his injured shoulder. That makes four operations he's had on his shoulder altogether; whether he will need more in the future remains to be seen. During the third surgery, the doctors removed several bone chips that were floating in John's shoulder, and they repaired his coracoclavicular ligament." Bill paused. "The good news is, that particular repair job reduced his discomfort, and it also freed up his range of motion a little. Unfortunately, nothing could be done for the damaged nerves in his brachial plexus; he will have to live with the nerve damage for the rest of his life. At the moment, however, that was the least of John's worries. The osteomyelitis was threatening his life just as the sepsis had."
"And how did the bullet wound cause him to have osteomyelitis?" Lestrade asked.
Murray smiled sadly. "All too easily, Detective Inspector. When bullets enter a body, they carry with them everything they passed through on the way. In John's case, that included bits of his clothing and his armour. All of that ended up deposited deep inside his body, rubbing off as the bullet passed. Those particles carry germs with them. Furthermore, there are numerous germs right on the surface of the skin tissue that are kept from entering the human body by its first line of defence—the skin itself. The entry of a bullet creates an opening for the germs to enter; even without the particles from his clothes, the germs on his skin would have still entered his body. One of them is the 
, one of the germs that cause osteomyelitis. The injury exposes the bone to infection, you see; the germs enter the bloodstream and travel to various parts of the body, one of them being the bone or bone marrow. Unfortunately, antibodies aren't always successful in fighting them off."
He stared down at his hands on the table. "What happened in John's case is that even though the surgeons who operated on his shoulder at Bastion were very thorough in washing his bullet wound, 
 in making sure that they followed all necessary precautions to keep all of their instruments sterile, when they first started operating on his shoulder, the particles the bullet had carried with them had already entered his body, and the germs on his skin and from the clothing and armour particles had already entered his bloodstream. The doctors weren't able to prevent his bloodstream from seeding the germs to other parts of his body. Eventually, some of the bacteria—the 
—landed in the bone marrow of his right leg. As a result, not only was his leg in severe pain, but he was also forced to continue fighting for his life."
Bill bit his lower lip. "The antibiotics the doctors gave Captain Watson to fight the infection are very potent and very poisonous, Detective Inspector, and for over a month, they had to be administered directly into his heart through a PICC line. In spite of the danger, it was a risk that had to be taken, or John would have most certainly either died or lost his leg. If the antibiotics had 
 been administered, or if they had not been successful in curing the osteomyelitis, the doctors would have had to amputate his leg to save his life." Lestrade winced yet again and shook his head at the thought. Bill nodded. "Yeah. I know." He paused.
"As it was, John continued going through a very rough time, and I mean 
! For a long time, his right leg was very painful; they had to keep giving him morphine to ease the pain, and they had to keep monitoring his morphine dosages most carefully, to make sure he didn't become addicted. And he was forced to endure acute renal failure; his kidneys started failing. That, in turn, made dialysis necessary. It was because of the antibiotics, you see, that the renal failure set in. It lasted for quite some time; for the following month, nobody knew if his kidneys would ever regain their ability to function."
Bill shook his head. "And as if all that wasn't enough, some of the 
 that entered John's bloodstream when he was shot travelled to his brain and created an abscess. And so, the day after he was transferred to Selly Oak, in addition to treating his sepsis and his osteomyelitis, his doctors also had to treat the brain abscess; it had to be drained. That had to be done during the early days of his battle with sepsis. Unfortunately, less than two months after the abscess had been successfully treated, Captain Watson had a grand-mal seizure, and it wasn't a febrile seizure that time, because his life-threatening complications were behind him, and the fever had broken by then. Nobody knew if he was developing epilepsy. He ended up having two such seizures in a little over a week." He shifted his position on the chair's unyielding surface and glanced at the late-afternoon sunlight pouring in through the window.
"And last, but not least, the nerve damage in his shoulder caused him a lot of trouble. The extent of the damage only became apparent over time, but it did become apparent. For one thing, his left hand started experiencing intermittent tremors; I've been told that's psychosomatic, and I've recently learned that, oddly enough, stress doesn't cause him to have those tremors, but other psychosomatic triggers do cause them, and so does fatigue. It's strange to say this, I know, but action and an accompanying surge of adrenaline actually keeps the tremors at bay."
Bill shook his head again, smiling wryly at the thought. "Unfortunately, he also started having other symptoms that, I regret to say, are 
 psychosomatic; those symptoms manifested themselves from the start. No sooner did he regain consciousness at Selly Oak than he started getting a pins-and-needles sensation in his left arm and his left hand; he still does. He can feel pressure against his shoulder if it's pressed against hard, but nothing else. His fine-motor skills were damaged, and the dexterity and sensation in his left hand and the range of motion in his left arm were both reduced. At first, he could grasp nothing with his left hand, and for a left-handed man like John, that's a real annoyance, to say the least. Only through a few months of physical and occupational therapy at Selly Oak Hospital and Headley Court was he able to regain almost the full use of his left arm and the functional use of his left hand. The good news is, his range of motion and hand mobility both improved through physical and occupational therapy; his range of motion, in particular, has since become quite good, I'm glad to say. Unfortunately…"
Murray sighed. "His handwriting used to be so neat, Detective Inspector, so tidy, so lovely; now it's quite messy, cramped, a real scrawl. He keeps practicing his handwriting to this very day, keeps trying to restore it to what it used to be before he was shot; so far, he's had no success. He also performs daily mobility and dexterity exercises. He holds a pen or a pencil somewhat awkwardly, I've noticed. He used to be quite nimble at touch-typing, and now he can only type hunt-and-peck with two fingers on each hand." He paused.
"To this day, the fingers of John's left hand tend to be a bit numb. Whenever his hand starts to shake, or his arm starts getting that pins-and-needles sensation that spreads down into his left hand, he always stretches out his fingers and then clenches his hand in a fist over and over again, and he soon starts rubbing his fingertips with his thumb. It's very hard for him to manage anything with his left hand when that tremor happens. He is quite capable of dropping or spilling something when his hand starts shaking. Sometimes the tremors force him to eat and drink with his right hand, even though he's left-handed. And he always has to be careful in how he puts on or takes off a pullover." Bill grimaced, and Lestrade shook his head.
"He's not as able to reach overhead or behind him with his left arm as he once was; it hurts his shoulder to even try. There's a limit to how far behind or above him that he can reach before intense pain sets in. His left arm's range of motion is definitely reduced, especially if he tries to reach anything above his head or behind him, and so is his left hand's sensation, its ability to feel. He still has some residual pain in his shoulder the rest of the time, but he can manage it as a rule. He also has a portable barometer now; if it's rainy, or the weather's cold and wet, or getting ready to change, his shoulder suffers increased pain." He made a face. "As if all that isn't enough, every time he has to undergo a security check before entering a building, the hardware the surgeons put in his shoulder to keep the bone fragments together sets off the metal detector."
Lestrade nodded. "I see." As a telephone in the team room next to his office made a muffled ringing sound, he took a sip of his coffee and then looked straight at Bill. "Hardware, you say?"
"Yes. Pins, a couple of screws, and a couple of metal fixation plates holding the clavicle and scapula together, as I said earlier." Lestrade nodded. "It may eventually be possible to remove the fixation plates, though I doubt it, not with some of the bones having grown through them as they grew back together. At any rate, the pins and the screws are there to stay."
The retired army nurse cleared his throat and repositioned himself on his chair. A serious look crept over his face. "The military has a firm rule, Lestrade: 
 who has a seizure disorder is allowed in the military. No one who has had a seizure in the past 10 years is allowed to join, and no one who develops seizures while in the military is allowed to remain. Just one seizure is enough to disqualify you, and only last autumn, Captain Watson had two—and I'm not counting the fever-induced seizures; he wouldn't have been discharged for having them. Between his acute renal failure, his nerve damage, and the prospect of epilepsy—and especially the prospect of epilepsy—no one knew if John would ever regain his full health. It was impossible to determine whether he would 
 be able to return to active service. Among other things, if he were to have a seizure while he was on active duty—well, let's just say that it was a risk that the army medical board concluded simply could not be taken." He scratched his left arm.
"And so, in the end, the decision was finally made not only to give Captain Watson a medical discharge in the form of early retirement, but also to take away his driver's licence. The Driver and Vehicle Licencing Agency has banned him from driving, possibly permanently. And the General Medical Council has decided that because of the seizures and the nerve damage, while John can still be a general practitioner, his days as a surgeon are over. Since he was a commissioned officer, the Army Personnel Centre retired him from the army, with retirement benefits; his retirement went into effect on December 1st." Bill scratched his wrist. "In five years from the date of his retirement, he will be allowed to appeal the decisions regarding his career as a surgeon and his driving, but his retirement from the army can never be appealed. His days in the army are over for good."
Lestrade shook his head, sadness etched on his face. "Has he had any seizures since his discharge?"
"Not that I know of."
"What about his kidneys?"
"They regained their full ability to function once he was moved out of ICU and taken off the antibiotics for the bone infection, I'm glad to say."
"Good." Lestrade smiled and then leaned back in his chair, a pensive look on his face. The heater's soft humming switched off. "When I first met him, he was limping around on a cane. But during the case that Sherlock involved him in that night, his limp disappeared, and he stopped using the cane. Sherlock thinks his limp was psychosomatic."
"It was—at least to an extent—and so are his hand tremors. The limp was caused by pain in his right leg—his calf—every time he walked." Murray glanced down his hands, and then looked back at Lestrade. "He was treating a soldier with a badly damaged right calf when he was shot, and that doubtless had a lot to do with his limp. But part of it, I have reason to believe, was also that his own right calf was in severe pain for so long, during his lengthy battle with osteomyelitis. The brain has been known to relive old injuries during times of stress, did you know that? Hence, the pain in his leg and the resulting limp whenever he walked until recently. It actually started while he was undergoing physical and occupational therapy at Selly Oak Hospital and continued at Headley Court, and so did the intermittent hand tremors."
Murray paused, shaking his head. "The physical and occupational therapy Captain Watson underwent, once he was well on the road to recovery from his osteomyelitis, was rigorous, to say the least. It was so hard on John, but if he was ever to get back on his feet and once more be able to function, it had to be done. He also underwent psychotherapy from one of Headley Court's staff psychotherapists, beginning at Selly Oak."
"I see." Lestrade nodded. "And what did the physical and occupational therapy consist of?"
Bill paused. "Well, Captain Watson had to get his strength back, for starters, and his doctors and therapists pushed him to do just that. In fact, once he was well enough to start rehab, they pushed him quite hard, Detective Inspector Lestrade, from start to finish, both in the hospital and then at the Headley Court rehab centre. First, he had to sit up in bed; next, he had to get out of his bed and stand; after that, he had to walk around the room, and then up and down the hall. All the while, he also had to start working to get back his arm and hand mobility, and so, he had to perform daily shoulder exercises and daily mobility and dexterity exercises. At first—" He bit his lower lip. "At first, Captain Watson could just barely manage to flex two fingers. He could grasp nothing, not even a tennis ball or a teacup. He couldn't hold a pen or a pencil. Just stacking some wooden blocks was such a struggle for him, I'm told, and it took him a few hours to do even that. It wasn't long until it was really hurting his right leg to walk, even though the osteomyelitis was gone by then. It was when he first started trying to walk that the intense pain first came into his right calf, and he was forced to limp and start using a cane. It was also during that time that his left hand started to shake off and on." He sighed. "I'm told that John worked so hard to get his strength and mobility back. He did everything his doctors and therapists told him to do; he was most diligent about following their orders. But…but the extent of the damage became more and more apparent as time went on. Every week…"
Murray swallowed and took a deep breath, pain in his eyes. "Every week, there was yet another setback or some new obstacle that he had to get past. It was so rough on John, 
 rougher than I can possibly describe. He wasn't released from Headley Court until he was retired from the army on December 1st."
"I see." Wincing, Lestrade furrowed his brow as he thought about what Bill had just told him. He bent forward in his chair and, clasping his hands together on the desk, looked intently at Bill. "You say he's left-handed. In the army, then, which hand did he shoot with? His left or his right?"
"His right." Bill smiled. "From what he told me, he didn't know how to shoot when he first joined the Army Reserves during his first year in medical school at King's College London, so the army had to teach him. The average gun is designed for right-handed people, and so he had to learn to shoot with his right."
"He did, huh?" Lestrade leaned back again to think about what Bill had just said. He remembered what Sherlock had said about the shooter who had killed Jefferson Hope to save his life.
 Sherlock had said. 
 Lestrade thought. 
After a moment, he gazed at the former army nurse. "One thing puzzles me, Mr. Murray. I can understand your being able to tell me everything that happened right up to the point when Dr. Watson was airlifted to the U.K., but how do you know so much about what happened to him afterwards?"
Bill smiled wryly. "Our commanding officer, Major James Sholto, our army unit's consultant surgeon, Major Robert Clancy, and I—our entire army unit, in fact—we all kept in contact with his doctors at Camp Bastion, Selly Oak Hospital, and Headley Court; they were all very good about keeping us posted not only about Captain Watson, but about the other injured soldiers who'd been transferred to Selly Oak. At one point, I was able to travel to England to visit him at Selly Oak during a short leave. Dr. John Watson was, and 
, my friend as well as my former superior officer; he was my brother-in-arms while we were in the army. I've known him since well before we were deployed to Afghanistan; we first met at King's College London. I was a first-year nursing student at the time, and he was a second-year medical student. Later, we met again at Barts, when he was a senior house officer. Also, after I had mustered out, I was in London for a short time at the end of December and again late last month, before he met Sherlock, and I took the opportunity to meet up with him again, both times. During my short visits, we spent a good deal of time together at his bedsit and at the hostel where I was staying; we also met several times at a nearby pub for a pint. We shared much with each other throughout those visits." He glanced down at his wedding ring, gleaming under the overhead light, and smiled. "After my first visit with John, I got married, and I've invited him to come by and meet my new wife."
"So, I read on his blog." Lestrade smiled, and then his brow furrowed. "And what kind of shape was John in, physically and emotionally, when you visited him? Especially in December and January?"
Sadness creased the face of the ex-army nurse. He slumped back in his chair. "Not good, Inspector Lestrade. Not good at all. For one thing, back in December and January, especially, he was still much too thin, and he was just so weak and hollow still. I mean, he was just a shell of himself, inspector, nothing like the man I had served under in Afghanistan. And for another, he was having regular nightmares about the war, terrible nightmares; more than once during our time together, he also suffered a flashback. He was so depressed; I could tell he was, even though he did his best to hide it from me. He was so withdrawn, so—" Bill paused, thinking. "—uh, let me think: so—so 
. He didn't smile once during my visit here, although he was never anything less than courteous towards me. What's more, his appetite was gone. He might take out an apple and make himself a cup of coffee or tea when he first got up in the morning, intending to have them for breakfast, but come lunchtime or even supper, he wouldn't have even touched his apple yet."
He shook his head. "And, of course, there was the limp, which certainly didn't help matters; I know it had to have made him feel crippled, to have to use that cane. Even though there was nothing physically wrong with his leg at that point. Needless to say, the numbness, the reduction of his range of motion and of hand mobility, and the psychosomatic intermittent hand tremors made it all worse. He had developed the habit of balling up his left hand and rubbing his fingertips with his thumb. Again and again, during my visit, he kept clenching his left fist tightly, and then he would splay out his fingers and clench his fist again. He told me, at one point, that he couldn't quite feel them." Bill paused. "He also told me he was seeing a therapist."
"Do you think he might have been suicidal?"
Murray winced. "I fear he was, Detective Inspector. He never spoke to me about wanting to kill himself, but I wouldn't be at all surprised if he was thinking of it. Perhaps very seriously."
He looked at Lestrade. "You need to understand, Inspector Lestrade: John has a strong need to be needed. To be of service to others, to care for them. To fix things and make things better for those he cares about. To be part of something bigger than himself, to make a difference, to have a purpose for his life. Not to mention that he loves a challenge, and he likes to be appreciated. And—" His eyes twinkled. "—he has a craving for action and excitement and adrenaline—even danger." The two men chuckled. "He was a career army officer as well as a doctor, Inspector Lestrade; he made life-and-death decisions. As an army surgeon, Captain Watson was able to save lives, to help his fellow soldiers. He was always prepared to kill when he had to, and sometimes he 
 have to, to save the lives of other soldiers and sometimes civilians, as well as his own life. But his priority, as a doctor, was always 
 lives. He never enjoyed taking a life, but sometimes he had to, in order to save one. As an army doctor, he was part of something much bigger than himself; we all were. When you're a soldier, Inspector Lestrade, it's not about you. It's about something bigger than you, 
 bigger. The army was his life. In Afghanistan, his skills were desperately needed, very much in demand, and he knew it. He was one of the best doctors I've ever had the pleasure of working under. He would not have been discharged from the army unless the damage to his body was severe and irreparable, making it impossible for him to continue his work." Lestrade nodded and then sipped his coffee.
"When John was invalided out, he lost all that," Bill continued. "He lost his sense of purpose. He lost the feeling that he was making a difference. He lost the camaraderie he had enjoyed on base. And he lost the access to the adrenaline-pumping action that he had been a part of for so long. When he arrived here, he had no job, only one member of his immediate family still alive and his extended family quite thin, few possessions, and few, if any, friends in London; most of his friends were in the army. Virtually everything he owned when he was discharged could be placed in a large duffle bag and a large suitcase, plus his army pack. He cannot afford to live in London on an army pension, but he loves it here; now that he's out of the army, he does not want to leave it. Upon his move to London, he was forced to live by himself in a tiny bedsit in one of the poorer and less attractive neighbourhoods on the outskirts of the eastern side of Greater London, because he could afford nothing better and had no one to share a flat with, and he cannot go to his sister for help. That bedsit is south of the River Thames. Harry Watson—her real name is Harriet—she's an alcoholic, you see, and she and John just don't get along; they never have. And except for a cousin he's never even been close to, he has no other relatives still living. Even in his bedsit, John could barely afford food and lodgings. It was all he could do just to get by." Lestrade nodded, and then shook his head with a frown.
Bill slicked his hair back again as the heater's background hum came back on. "John was convinced he had nothing to live for, and he saw no hope that that would ever change. He was still alive, thanks to the doctors at Camp Bastion and Selly Oak Hospital, but he wasn't 
, if you understand me." The detective inspector nodded. He did, indeed. And that John was also alive thanks to the efforts of Sergeant Bill Murray himself, Lestrade had no doubt.
Bill went on. "He needs a 
 to live, and simply existing and muddling through from day to day isn't living for him. In short, John's had the most difficult time adjusting to civilian life. He really misses being a soldier and a surgeon, I can tell; at the same time, the terrible things that he saw and experienced in the war have had quite a negative effect on him. He's most definitely suffering at least from trauma, maybe even PTSD. At least he's seeing a therapist, but to be honest, I'm not sure she's really been helping him, although I've no doubt she's tried. What he really needs is a therapist who specializes in treating discharged soldiers; unfortunately, military therapists are few, and there are none available in London at present that John can see." Lestrade nodded.
Bill chuckled. "You know, Mr. Lestrade, keeping that blog was his therapist's idea. She was convinced that it would help him make the adjustment. He was most reluctant to post anything on it until recently; he really had nothing to blog about, and he's never been one to talk about himself or wear his emotions on his sleeve. He's always been reserved and guarded and stoic by nature. I believe you know why that changed—keeping the blog, I mean."
"Oh, yes," Lestrade said, with a laugh. "I certainly do. Now that he's teamed up with Sherlock, he will have 
 to blog about, even if he never talks about himself or blogs about his emotions." Bill nodded agreement.
Someone knocked on the office door. "Come in," Lestrade said. The door creaked open, and Sergeant Sally Donovan stepped in, a sheaf of papers in her hand, her shoes softly thudding on the carpet.
"This just arrived from Mycroft Holmes's office," she said. As Lestrade rose to his feet and pushed his chair back, she handed him the papers.
Lestrade glanced down at them. "Thank you, Donovan."
Sally stared at him hard, disapproval etched on her face. "Lestrade, are you really going to let this Dr. John Watson work with…that…?" Her voice trailed off, leaving the word, "freak," unspoken.
The detective inspector nodded. "If he passes the background check, I see no reason not to."
Shaking her head in disapproval, Sally pivoted on her heels and left, the door clicking shut behind her. Murray looked at the door, amused, and then turned back to Lestrade. "I take it she doesn't approve of John Watson."
Lestrade shook his head, a rueful smile on his face. "It's Sherlock she doesn't approve of. She's convinced that he's a dangerous psychopath. Needless to say, she doesn't approve of anyone working with him. She's already tried to warn Dr. Watson off."
He glanced down at the papers Mycroft had sent, turned off the digital voice recorder, and then looked back up at Bill. "Thank you, Mr. Murray; your info has been very helpful. Now I've got to go over this information I've received about Dr. Watson."
"Certainly." Bill stood up, pushing his chair back, and slipped back into his coat. Shaking Lestrade's hand, the ex-army nurse left the detective inspector's office. Lestrade approached the back of the room to turn the heater off for a while, since it was getting too hot again, and then he returned to his desk.
Several hours later, Lestrade had finished reading intensively and digesting the information that Mycroft had collected for his own background check and had sent him, listening to the digital copy of his interview with Murray, re-reading the entries on Dr. Watson's blog, including the comments that had been made on them—some of which made him chuckle—and reviewing the copy of the former army doctor's service record that he had initially acquired at the beginning of his background check of Dr. Watson. By then, the sun was setting, so the detective inspector had turned on the table lamp, which shed a soft glow over the desk. Lestrade had just turned the thermostat back on, because it was getting cold in his office; the heat emitting from the air vents felt good on his skin. He had already rung his wife earlier, to let her know that he might be late in returning home.
Now he scanned the papers, reviewing them, stopping here and there to focus on particular pieces of information that caught his eye. Everything that he had read in Dr. Watson's service record and on his blog, and in the detailed information which Mycroft had sent him, had confirmed and corroborated everything that the former Sergeant Bill Murray had told him. Several times, the detective inspector stopped to rub his eyes when the print because fuzzy from eyestrain. Once, he stopped to glance at his watch.
Dr. John Hamish Watson had been born at St. Pancras Hospital in London and raised in Chelmsford, in Essex, north of London, in an aluminium prefabricated bungalow on Taylor Avenue, one of a few aluminium prefabs on a small portion of that street. He was the only son of Hamish and Jean Watson, and the younger of two children.
 Because of difficulties with his birth that had raised the possibility of a Caesarean, instead of giving birth in the Watsons' local hospital, Broomfield Hospital, his mother had been transferred by ambulance to St. Pancras Hospital in London. Fortunately, even though John's birth had ended up being a breech birth, he had otherwise been born normally. His parents, who were now deceased, had been a very modest lower-class couple; his family had been low-income. When John had been born, his father had been in the Army Reserves for several years, but had otherwise been unemployed. Not long after John's birth, Hamish had got a job on the assembly line at Britvic, a factory in Chelmsford that manufactured fizzy drinks; when John had been two years old, Hamish had left the Reserves. John's mother had been a stay-at-home housewife and mother; before her marriage, her maiden name had been Leekey
. John's older sister, Harriet Jane Watson
, had been six years old when her little brother was born. John had been christened into the Church of England at Chelmsford Cathedral a few weeks after his birth, and he had been confirmed there when he'd been sixteen. Through most of his growing-up years, he had attended church at the cathedral with his godmother. As a child, he had loved to read (and still did), and he had also enjoyed tossing Frisbees and playing tag rugby, five-a-side, and darts with his friends at their homes and in the nearby alley.
The future Dr. Watson and his sister had first attended Kings Road Infant School and Kings Road Junior School
, both of which had been about a 26-minute walk from their home, and then John had attended a local state-run grammar school, the King Edward VI Grammar School, from 1994 until 1999. There, he had eventually earned six A's on his GCSE exams, as well as top grades in his three A-levels later on, in biology, chemistry, and maths. Because John had been particularly loyal to the House that he had been assigned to upon his enrolment, Holland House, he had eventually been awarded its House colour. In the Lower School, John had also received clarinet lessons; once he had earned a distinction on the Grade 1 music exam, he had played that instrument in the junior orchestra. Later on, after he had earned a distinction on the Grade 6 music exam, he had played the clarinet in the senior orchestra for the rest of his time at King Edward. John had participated in track and played football and rugby there, in all of which he had excelled (in large part because he was a fast runner); once he had entered Year 10, the future doctor had also joined the school rugby team and the school track team. Through most his school years, John had been active in Boy Scouts, starting in the Beaver Boy Scouts, which he'd entered when he had been six years old at his mother's urging, and ending with the Senior Scouts, which he had entered when he had been fifteen. At 15 years of age, while John had been studying for his GCSE exams at KEGS, his parents had been killed in a driving accident. His older sister, Harry, who had attended a local state-run grammar school for girls, the Chelmsford County High School for Girls; had spent her last two years of school while living with her maternal grandmother in Penrith, Cumbria, in northern England, and had passed her own A-levels at Queen Elizabeth Grammar School in that town—and had been attending London University at the time of their parents' deaths—had become his legal guardian. Except for his sister and a female cousin who lived in north-western England near Wales, Dr. Watson had no living relatives. His late father had had no siblings; John had never known his paternal grandparents, who had died before he was born. And his maternal grandparents, and his aunt and uncle on his mother's side of the family, had long since been deceased.
 Lestrade thought, scratching the side of his nose. 
 The detective inspector smiled, impressed. 
 He took a sip of his now-cold coffee and then read on.
John had got into fights a lot as a kid—in fact, he'd had quite a chip on his shoulder. A lot of the fights he had got into had started when he had stood up for smaller kids against bullies who were older, bigger, and stronger; he had always been a champion of the underdog. The rest of the fights had come about when bullies had attempted to pick on John, apparently mistaking his smaller stature for weakness. As a result, John had been involved in multiple incidents throughout his time in school, mostly involving bullies from higher years in school.
After he had passed his A-levels in 1999, the future Dr. John Watson had attended King's College London from 1999 to 2004, the second member of his family to ever take A-levels or attend university (his sister had been the first), and there, he had studied medicine. Because of his lower-class background, he had qualified for the King's Affordable Accommodation Scheme (KAAS), and had thus been assigned a KAAS non-en suite in Wolfson House, which was not far from the campus where he had taken his studies. His second year at King's College had been an intercalated year, during which time he had studied for a Bachelor of Science degree as well as his medical sciences degree. John had studied diligently and had earned better-than-average marks throughout his time at King's College. Since only his classes had been free, he had joined the Army Reserves during his first year at medical school, and he had remained in the AR until he had finished his two years as a house officer following his graduation; it had paid for his books, food, and housing until he had graduated from medical school. And he had continued to play the clarinet in the uni orchestra, and to play rugby and participate in track throughout his university career. During his last three years in medical school, the future doctor had done some of his clinical work at Kings College Hospital, part of it at St. Bartholomew's Hospital, and the rest of it at the South Thames Deanery.
In 2004, at age 24, when Dr. Watson had graduated from medical school with an MBBS
 in the top ten percent of his class (at which point, he had received his degrees in Bachelor of Science, Bachelor of Medicine, and Bachelor of Surgery from the University of London), he had commenced doing his rotations as a junior house officer for the next year. He had performed his first rotation at University College Hospital in London, in general surgery and medicine. He had spent his second rotation at Broomfield Hospital in his old hometown of Chelmsford, in trauma and orthopaedics, and he had stayed at his late parents' prefab throughout that rotation; he had visited Barts Hospital during that rotation, to attend some courses that were run by the North East Thames Deanery. And then he had done one more rotation at Kings College Hospital. Afterward, from August, 2005, to August, 2006, Dr. Watson had completed his entire year as a senior house officer at Barts, after which he had trained to become a general practitioner. All the while, he had continued his weekends with the Army Reserves, during which he had advanced to the rank of corporal.
In 2006, after Dr. Watson had finished his rotation as a senior house officer, had completed his training to become a general practitioner, and had received his GP licence, he had made two life-changing decisions. He had decided to retrain as a surgeon, and then he had decided to join the army.
 Lestrade thought, rising to his feet to turn the heater back off. 
 Amusement creased his face as he smiled.
Chuckling, the grey-haired detective inspector returned to his desk, pushed his glasses up the bridge of his nose, and bent again over the papers that Mycroft had sent him. Dr. Watson had initially tried to get a surgical training post at one of the London hospitals, only to find that none were available at any of them. It was at that point that he had decided to join the Royal Army Medical Corps' surgery-training program instead. And so, he had done just that, at which point he had spent 10 weeks training to become a commissioned officer at Royal Military Academy Sandhurst, where he had acquired some leadership skills. He had been at the top of his class while there. Since Dr. Watson would not be leading troops into battle, he had taken a shorter officers' course at Sandhurst than regular soldiers did. But because he had been training to become a surgeon, he had taken the officers' course long enough to ensure that he would be quite proficient in the use of firearms upon graduation.
Lestrade wondered why it would be necessary for an army surgeon to be skilled with a gun, since army doctors were not sent to the front lines. 
At the end of his officer training, Dr. Watson had been commissioned as a second lieutenant in the RAMC, and then he had been deployed to one of the active war zones in Afghanistan, where he had spent the next three years first at Camp Bastion in the Helmand Province, then at a U.S. base in Kandahar, and last, back in Helmand at FOB Hamidullah, a British forward operating base that had its own field hospital
; all that time, he had been trained in surgery and emergency medicine. It had been necessary that the new army doctor receive his surgical training in active combat zones, so that he could learn the skills that he would need in order to become an army trauma surgeon. Upon his arrival at Bastion, he had been assigned to assist Dr. Robert Clancy, a consultant surgeon and a major by rank who was attached to the Fifth Northumberland Fusiliers as its medical officer, training under him to become a combat surgeon. 
 Lestrade thought, 
. He returned to his reading. For the next three years, until Dr. Watson was shot, he had remained with the Fusiliers.
The particular Fusiliers unit to which Second Lieutenant Watson and Major Clancy had both been assigned had been under the command of Major James Sholto. The young trainee surgeon had still been under Major Sholto's command—and under the supervision of Major Clancy, under whom he had undergone his surgical and emergency medical training—at the end of Dr. Watson's deployment in Afghanistan. He had first been stationed at Bastion in the Helmand Province. Later, soon after Dr. Watson had been promoted to lieutenant, the Fusiliers and another U.K. company had been temporarily "seconded" to a U.S. base in Kandahar, to provide added security during a Taliban "surge" in attacks. Since it wasn't a U.K. base, they couldn't be "stationed" there. But because of international cooperation between the two countries, a couple of companies, including the Fusiliers, had essentially been loaned to the US in Kandahar until the emergency was over.
Afterward, at the beginning of Dr. Watson's third year as an army doctor, the Fusiliers had been sent back to Helmand, to be stationed at FOB Hamidullah; at that point, he had entered the Specialty Training program. Since it was necessary that, as a trauma surgeon, Dr. Watson be quite flexible in his surgical skills, the focus in his training had continued to be more of the same. In the process, Dr. Clancy had taught the young trainee combat surgeon A&E techniques, which were known in the army as field medicine techniques, and to treat gunshot wounds as well as injuries caused by shrapnel and explosions.
 thought Lestrade, wincing. 
 He cleared his throat, shifted his position on his chair's unyielding surface, took another sip of coffee, and then read on. He momentarily wrapped his arms around his chest as he felt goosebumps forming on them, but determinedly kept his eyes on the print. 
 flashed through his mind, before he forced his attention back to the info before him. He didn't want to get up and turn the heater back on, not just yet.
The young army doctor's job had been to assist in stabilizing soldiers who had sustained massive trauma, so that it would be possible to evacuate them out of the combat zone to receive more specialised treatment. 
 Lestrade thought ruefully, shaking his head, and then kept reading.
Soon after Dr. Watson had started to undergo his Specialty training, Dr. Clancy had begun sending him with one of the nurses fairly frequently into full-combat zones to stabilize and retrieve wounded soldiers by using A&E procedures. Sometimes Dr. Watson and the nurse had flown with his patients to the field hospital at FOB Hamidullah, where they had been either treated and discharged, or else further stabilized and then sent onward to the hospital at Camp Bastion for treatment; other times, they had flown with their patients directly to Bastion itself, and then had returned to the FOB. As a trainee surgeon, and thus as a more junior member of the army surgical team, Dr. Watson had been more expendable than any consultant surgeon would be, and so, he had participated in retrieval missions at combat zones far more often than Dr. Clancy had. Thus, it had been absolutely necessary for the young army doctor to be pretty handy with a weapon, and he had been; he was a crack shot.
The D.I. paused for a moment, to ponder that. 
is
 Lestrade thought, pausing to remove his glasses and rub his eyes because the print was becoming fuzzy again; his eyes were strained.
He shivered in the cold. 
 After gazing at the wall for a moment to rest his eyes, he put his glasses back on, and then turned his attention back to the information he was reading.
For those emergency retrieval missions, during which Dr. Watson had been flown to the combat areas in medevac choppers, he had been issued full body armour and standard-issue weapons to defend himself, his nurse, and his patients with. On quite a number of occasions, the young army doctor had had to fire back at the enemy while being shot at, but that had never been his priority; saving lives had been. He had been cool, calm, and collected while under fire, his service report stated, courageous and daring, as well as very loyal; he had been mentioned in dispatches and had received numerous citations and commendations, as well as a number of medals for bravery, valour, and gallantry.
, Lestrade thought, shaking his head, and then continued to read.
Since Dr. Watson had been in the process of training to become a combat surgeon throughout his time in Afghanistan, he had never had the authority to make final decisions regarding treatment; he had been required to defer to his superiors. He had performed many of the straightforward operations without supervision. On his own, he had removed quite a sizable number of bullets and shrapnel, and he had sewn up more gunshot wounds than he could probably count. Sometimes, Dr. Watson had had to treat wounded civilians, including Afghani children; more often, however, he had treated injured soldiers or wounded medical colleagues. In the process, to the best of his ability, the young army doctor had helped to stop internal bleeding; he had extracted shrapnel and bullets; he had stopped external haemorrhaging; he had sewn up a variety of wounds; and he had simply treated and bandaged other external injuries.
The only cases that Dr. Watson had been forbidden to treat without supervision had been those in which the bullets or shrapnel had hit vital organs; it had been Major Clancy's job to treat those serious wounds, and Dr. Watson's job to assist him. Nor had he performed any amputations, since that was the job of the orthopaedic surgeons. Instead, the young trainee army surgeon had worked with Dr. Clancy and with anaesthetists who'd had training in intensive care to physically stabilize wounded soldiers. Whenever Dr. Watson had operated on a patient with complex injuries, he had been the assistant surgeon to Dr. Clancy during the operation.
In the course of his surgical training, Dr. Watson had advanced in his rank from second lieutenant to lieutenant, and then, when he had embarked on his Specialty training, he had advanced to the rank of captain, the rank he had held upon his early retirement. Had he remained in the army long enough to finish his training and become a consultant surgeon himself, he would have become a major, as Dr. Clancy was. As it was, the young army doctor had still been undergoing his trauma specialist training when he had been shot and then invalided out. After Captain Watson's release from Headley Court and his medical discharge on December 1st, the Ministry of Defence had arranged for him to live in a bedsit in the Greater London area.
At that point, the detective inspector spent a few minutes going over the photographs that had been taken of Dr. Watson during the course of his infant, junior, and grammar school years, his years in the Boy Scouts, his years in medical school and as house officer, his weeks of training to become a GP, his 10 weeks at Sandhurst, and his three years in the RAMC. Lestrade also looked at the photographs of the doctor's old Boy Scout badges and his army medals, as a proud smile creased his face.
and
 he thought. 
Afterward, Lestrade spent a few more minutes going over the photographs that had been taken of the small one-story detached aluminium prefab bungalow shed that John and his older sister had grown up in. It was painted grey, with a sagging porch in front and another porch by the kitchen door on the right side from the street, and its surrounding garden contained a dilapidated garden shed in the back garden. A caption underneath one of the photographs of John's childhood home stated that the prefab that he had lived in as a child was located on Taylor Avenue in the Melbourne Estates, one of the more socially deprived areas of Chelmsford; it had a higher population of people who received benefits and housing from the government. The Watsons' prefab was not the only prefab on that street, as Greg noticed; a few one-story semi-detached and detached aluminium prefabs, as well as a number of council houses and one-story brick houses lined all of Taylor Avenue. Then the D.I. spent another few minutes examining the photos of the two-room bedsit that Dr. Watson had lived in for two months, the four-story block which that tiny bedsit was contained in, and the street that block stood on. His bedsit was located at one end of the third floor of that block, and as Bill Murray had told him, the block was located in one of the city's poorer and less attractive neighbourhoods on the outskirts of the eastern side of Greater London, south of the River Thames.
There was no separate lounge in that bedsit which the MoD had arranged for John to live in; the bedroom doubled as the lounge. The bedroom/lounge's walls and carpet were a dull off-green colour; it contained one twin bed next to the wall and the radiator, a nightstand next to the head of the bed, a desk across the room from the bed, a floor lamp in a corner, a chair under the desk, and a small table on the other side of the bedroom from the windows. A reading light sat on the small nightstand next to the head of the bed, and another sat on the desk along with a landline phone. The bedsit's entrance door was in the same wall that the bed stood alongside, and the entrance to the kitchenette was across the room from the bedroom windows. Dull-green drapes covered all but a portion of one of the bedroom walls, and a small white curtain covered one of the windows in that wall.
Another wall that extended most of the way across the side of the bedroom that was opposite from the bedroom windows separated that room from the kitchenette. Where that wall ended, the door-less entrance into the kitchenette began; the entrance and an open rectangular bar that doubled as a kitchen counter separated the bedroom/lounge from the kitchen. The small table stood next to the wall, underneath that bar. The kitchenette had a window above the sink.
No paintings or photographs decorated the walls, as Lestrade noticed, and no personal decorative knickknacks sat on the nightstand, desk, table, or kitchen counters. In short, the bedsit did not look lived in. It was clear to Greg that Dr. Watson had made no effort to make the bedsit into a home.
The information that Mycroft had included with the photos explained that all of the tenants on each floor had to share the same bathroom and toilet on that floor, and that the basement held an old, broken-down, dilapidated washing machine and an equally broken-down dryer for the tenants' use. It also explained that the nearest tube station was a lengthy walk away from the building that John had lived in, and that there were no shops anywhere within easy walking distance, only a pub.
Lestrade shook his head. 
 he thought. 
this
 He gritted his teeth as anger surged in his heart.
He looked over the photos again. 
Last, Lestrade spent some time reviewing the copies of the notes of Headley Court's staff psychologist and Ella Thompson. Ella had become Dr. Watson's therapist once he had been discharged from the army, as the detective inspector had noticed. He glanced rapidly over the two psychologists' notes. 
. 
. 
An asterisk above 
 directed Lestrade to a post-it note that Mycroft had included with Ella's notes. 
 he had written. 
Another note, written by Sherlock on a sheet of notebook paper, went as follows: 
Lestrade chuckled. He suspected that both Holmes brothers had it right, at least to an extent. Dr. Watson did indeed miss the war, though not for the reason that Mycroft believed. As Sherlock had correctly deduced, the good doctor missed the chance to make a difference, to be of service to others, to make things right for others, to save others' lives. He missed having a purpose to his life, being part of something bigger than himself; being an adrenaline junkie, he also missed the excitement and danger. As an army doctor, he had been able to relieve suffering and save the lives of soldiers (and sometimes of medical colleagues and civilians), and as Sherlock had stated, sometimes saving lives had meant ending the lives of others, which Dr. Watson clearly did not shrink from doing. Being a soldier as well as a doctor, he had been prepared to kill when he'd had to (as he had recently done, when he had shot Jefferson Hope to save Sherlock's life), but Lestrade had no doubt that the good doctor much preferred to 
 a life instead of taking one. And he probably missed the close camaraderie that he had enjoyed with his fellow soldiers and medical professionals. In fact, he probably missed that greatly, possibly most of all.
Unfortunately, the detective inspector feared, they were both correct about the emotional trauma that the good doctor was still enduring. Even if he did not have actual PTSD, he was indeed traumatized, as indicated by his nightmares, flashbacks, and psychosomatic limp and hand tremor, among other things. 
 he thought. Furthermore, having trust issues certainly didn't help matters. Lestrade sincerely hoped that Dr. Watson would be able to recover from his trauma. As it was, the good doctor really had his work cut out for him, readjusting to being a civilian once more.
Leaning back in his chair, Lestrade again shut down the computer monitor. He removed his glasses, rubbed his eyes, stretched his arms over his head, took another sip of coffee, and then wrapped his arms around his chest again in an effort to warm himself. After putting his glasses back on, he spent some time mulling over everything that he had read, and which Bill Murray had told him. The DI also reminisced about his own encounters with John, and then spent a few minutes pondering Sherlock.
 he thought. He glanced out the floor-to-ceiling window spanning the wall to his left; the streetlights had come on underneath a now-black, starlit sky. 
 Lestrade smiled.
Lestrade shook his head at the thought. Thank goodness he had 
 had to. He didn't like to think how the case would have turned out, or how many more people would have been murdered by Jefferson Hope, without Sherlock's help in solving the case.
needs
I
so
The detective inspector furrowed his brows. 
very
 he thought. 
very
Lestrade furrowed his brow as an unpleasant thought came to him. 
does
far
Lestrade shook his head at the thought and gazed down at his desk's cluttered surface. 
much
end
much
ever
that
long
knows
Lestrade sipped his coffee and then gazed down at John's records. 
Greg grimaced.
when
when
not
lot
 He smiled.
 He smiled at the thought.
 Lestrade grimaced at the thought. 
Lestrade scratched his head. 
me
and
 The detective inspector smiled at the prospect.
anyone
As he took a sip of coffee, Lestrade paused to consider that. On the surface, Dr. Watson was such a bland, unremarkable, diffident man. Modest, mild-mannered, unassuming, respectful of authority, and very polite and well-mannered; so easy to overlook, and very quick to fade into the background.
And yet…and yet, there was so much more to the good doctor than met the eye, Lestrade mused; that much was clear. A man of deep humanity; a daring, courageous soldier; a caring, dedicated, exceptionally skilled doctor; and an adrenaline junkie who was cool, calm, and collected under fire. A crack shot. And a man who already had Sherlock's back, as his actions when Sherlock's life had been in danger had made clear.
Lestrade smiled. 
And
 The detective inspector shook his head ruefully at the memory.
very
The detective inspector rubbed his index finger over the crisp white sheet on top of the stack. 
Whistling, Lestrade removed his glasses, rose to his feet, and turned the heater back on; its soft hum once more made a soothing background noise. Returning to his desk, the detective inspector inserted a memory stick into the digital voice recorder; while he was saving the info onto the memory stick, he divided the crisp stack of papers into three separate smaller stacks. As soon as the interview had been copied onto the memory stick, Lestrade inserted it into a storage bag, and then he included the memory stick with one of the stacks. He placed the stacks inside three folders, all of which he labelled 
 and 
.
After the detective inspector had inserted the folders into a metal file cabinet in the back of his office, he picked up his mug, switched the overhead light off, and then entered the squad room to get a refill of hot coffee, smiling. He fully intended to keep a close eye on Sherlock and his new flatmate, and he was looking forward to again working with Dr. Watson.
