It's a few days after the solving of the Study in Pink, and the high from solving a case is starting to wear off. John is completely oblivious to Sherlock's growing attraction to him, but he himself is starting to feel the same. John loves the thrill and excitement he feels, solving cases with the almond-eyed, pale, dark haired detective, and his beauty is undeniable. But how do you go about asking the smartest man in London on a date when he's also the most thick-headed, socially-inept and bluntly rude sociopath on the planet?
Dinner
Sherlock was lying on the sofa pushed against the wall, searching "The Science of Deduction" website on his phone for a new case. It had been four days since "The Study in Pink" as John called it had come to a close. He was starting to get bored.
And frankly, the adorable, loyal and at the same time sassy army doctor across the room from him was making it difficult for Sherlock to concentrate.
The moment they met, Sherlock was immediately intrigued and attracted to Dr. Watson. In fact, in his own way, he'd made it a point to flirt with him the second he'd walked into the Forensics room at Barts...
An initial set of knocks at the door didn't divert Sherlock's attention for one moment as he was distributing a few drops of saline solution to a lab sample.
But when he heard the second set of steps entering the room, he straightened up and took a second to glance over at the entryway, curiosity overtaking him.
He did not expect what he saw.
An attractive man with an upturned nose, sandy brown hair and a softness in his eyes as if he'd been through hardship. His clothes were simple and clean, but not expensive by any means. He was limping, relying on the support of a cane and Sherlock desperately wanted another excuse to look at him.
"Bit different from my day," the man said.
Sherlock froze at hearing the stranger's voice.
He very much liked the warmth and yet confident superiority that emanated from his tone.
Wounded in action. Doctor with a psychosomatic limp.
Military man.
Sherlock needed to come up with something. Anything, anything to find out more information about this attractive stranger.
This stranger who he would most likely be sharing a flat with him.
He took notice of the fact that Mike didn't have his coat with him, which meant he probably didn't have a cell phone on him, either.
, Sherlock thought. He had an idea. "Mike, can I borrow your phone? There's no signal on mine." It was a lie, but he added that last bit for good measure.
"And what's wrong with a landline?" Mike retorted.
 "I prefer to text."
"Sorry, it's in my coat," Mike said regretfully.
"Uh, here," the man placed a hand down his back pocket and produced his own cell phone. "Use mine." His eyes were earnest and trusting, having no problem lending his phone to a complete stranger.
 This little experiment was indeed telling of this man's character, as Sherlock had hoped. "Oh. Thank you," he said as if he were completely surprised by the course of action that had ensued.
"This is my friend, John Watson," Mike so helpfully supplied.
 Sherlock thought with relief, slowly walking forward to receive the phone. A
He immediately noticed up close that the man had a tan. But as he reached forward to hand Sherlock his cell phone, he saw that John had a tan line on his wrist.
Sherlock was able to deduce several facts about John simply by holding his phone.
As Sherlock opened the phone to shoot a text, he took a shot in the dark. "Afghanistan or Iraq?" he inquired. He sent a text to himself so he'd have John's number, then promptly deleted it.
John looked up at him in surprise, and suddenly Sherlock could sense the barrier he'd put up around himself. "I'm sorry?"
. "Which was it, Afghanistan or Iraq?" 
There was a pause.
Sherlock felt a knot of doubt in his stomach. 
"Afghanastan..I'm sorry but how did you - "
At that moment, they were interrupted by Molly.
 Sherlock held his composure, deciding to use this as a perfect opportunity to show his complete disinterest in women. "Ah, Molly! Coffee, thank you," he said, barely looking at her for longer than two seconds, but long enough to see a change. "What happened to the lipstick?"
"It wasn't working for me," she said as if it had been 
 decision alone.
But now it was time to display his disregard for the opposite sex for John. "Really? I thought it was a big improvement. Your mouth's too...small now," he took the coffee and turned away before he'd even finished his sentence.
Molly's "okay" as she left the room had been laced with dejection and disappointment.
Now to pounce the big questions. "How do you feel about the violin?" Sherlock asked, not looking at John as he asked.
"Sorry, what?" Sherlock saw out of the corner of his eye that John had shifted his weight, probably restless due to his confusion.
'I play the violin when I'm thinking and sometimes I don't talk for days on end...would that bother you? Potential flatmates should know the worst about each other." He looked up from his work, shooting John a soft, warm smile.
John's eyes shifted to Mike. "Oh, you...you told him about me?"
Mike shook his head. "Not a word."
"Then who said anything about flatmates?" John shifted his weight again.
 Sherlock concluded. Or was it excitement? Intrigue? He hoped it was the latter.
Sherlock began gathering his coat and tying his scarf on. 
 "
 did. I told Mike this morning that I must be a difficult man to find a flatmate for. " Sherlock shrugged on his coat. "Now here he is, just after lunch with an old friend clearly just home from military service in Afghanistan." He wrapped his scarf around his neck. "Wasn't a difficult leap," he assured him.
"How did you know about Afghanistan?" John inquired, looking down before looking back up. Another sign that he was uncomfortable being known about when he didn't know anything about the person with whom he was speaking.
 
 Sherlock had to hold back a smile and act as though he was incredibly busy. "Got my eye on a nice little place in central London. Together we should be able to afford it." He checked his phone quickly to make sure the text had gone through. 
 "We'll meet there tomorrow evening, 7:00." he proposed. "Sorry, got to dash, I think I left my riding crop in the Mortuary." 
Now to see if Sherlock's little peacocking technique had worked on the helpless doctor.
Sherlock had his hand on the doorknob.
"Is that it?" John's voice asked from behind him.
Sherlock grinned to himself but quickly made it dissipate as he turned around.
"Is that what?" his eyes meeting John's.
"We've only just met, and we're going to go look at a flat?" John's tone was guarded, but not entirely closed off. He was searching for some justification that this was a good idea.
"Problem?" he asked
"We don't know a thing about each other. I don't know where we're meeting, I don't even know your name."
Sherlock's gaze was intense and fixed on Watson as he spoke. "I know you're an army doctor and you've been invalided home from Afghanistan. I know you've got a brother who's worried about you but you won't go to him for help because you don't approve of him, possibly because he's an alcoholic, and more likely because he recently walked out on his wife." 
 "And I know your therapist thinks your limp's psychosomatic, quite correctly, I'm afraid." John glanced down at his leg. "That's enough to be going on with, don't you think?" Sherlock said, concluding his monologue of knowledge.
He turned to exit, and just before leaving out the door, he leaned his head out and said, "The name's Sherlock Holmes and the address is 221 B Baker street." He clicked his tongue. "Afternoon," he proclaimed to Mike before exiting.
Before the door had even closed, Sherlock briskly walked down the hall of Barts, smug with satisfaction. 
And now here they were, a week later, sharing a flat and living together.
John kept fidgeting and surprisingly Sherlock couldn't help but feel pity towards the doctor, irritated by the fact he was somehow uncomfortable. John seemed to bring out several emotions in Sherlock that he'd never been able to experience before. Before John, words like "doubt" and "attraction" were just the building blocks of sentences in novels, not emotions that could be 
He could tell from the corner of his eyes that the man wanted to ask him something.
But he hadn't quite gotten up the courage to do so, for some reason.
John was entirely unsure how to ask Sherlock out. He'd never in a million years believed he'd developed a romantic interest in a man, but he had grown to like the high-cheekboned detective. His features were so fine and stark, they were almost feminine. His delicate pale complexion, the gray-green almond eyes, his pouty lips and dark curls. Not to mention the way John felt just being around him. Life was never boring when Sherlock was in the picture. He'd helped John get over his psychosomatic limp, enabling him once again to move freely. For the first time since the military, Sherlock had given John freedom, a racing heart beat, the thrill of the chase, and an all new kind of thrill: the possibility for love.
"Are you going to ask me or not?" Sherlock suddenly said, jolting John from his thoughts.
The doctor blushed and sighed, refusing to look at Sherlock. "What makes you think – "
" –You've changed your seating position five times in the past three minutes, indicating that something is making you uneasy. I also can't help but notice that your head keeps turning in my direction every so often, which means whatever it is that's bothering you has something to do with me. And the reason you haven't said anything in all that time is because you've been contemplating how to phrase what it is you want to say. A statement that you spend so much time preparing can't be anything else but a question."
Watson took a deep breath, finally turning over to Sherlock. He envied the man for being so composed and calculating when he himself was a bundle of nerves and stress.
"Well…I…" 
. "T-there's a pub at 34 Kingly called the Clachan."
"Really?"
"Yeah, I like their cheese and chutney sandwich."
"I see."
. "I was wondering if you'd be interested in going."
"Probably at some point," Sherlock said.
 "With…me."
Sherlock finally looked up from his phone with a raised eyebrow. "I don't have a problem with that. When would you like to go?"
"Tonight," John finally managed to get out.
And then it became clear to Sherlock. "Oh. You're suggesting we go out for dinner."
"Yes."
Sherlock bit his lip in thought. "You want us to go together?"
"Yes," John said again, growing redder in the face with each passing second.
"On a date," Sherlock said as if it were a statement of fact.
John didn't answer, he was too flustered. 
But Sherlock's face was soon overcome with a huge grin, and he immediately leaped up from the sofa, dashing over to the rack to shrug on his dark gray wool coat. "I know of a place that's near dead at around 9:45. It's quieter and the wine there is superb. We'll kill some time in a Cab and then be on our way. I'm sure you'll like it, it's rustic yet modern and the food is –" He was talking as he was walking down the stairs and wrapping his scarf.
"Oh, God," John muttered under his breath before following behind, quickly trying to catch up.
"I'm so glad you suggested it, being cooped up for so long when there's no cases to be solved was starting to get to me."
 John struggled to keep up with the lithe, tall detective. 
"I'll have the penne a la vodka. I trust your judgment on what wine would go best," Sherlock said before his rear had even touched the chair or the Server had set down the Menus.
John rolled his eyes but blushed when he realized Sherlock had seen him.
"Very good, Sir. And you?" The waiter turned to John.
 John was about to babble some inane nonsense, but Sherlock immediately answered, "He'll have a cheese and chutney sandwich with chips on the side."
"Of course, Sir. Won't be but a moment." The Server left to fetch the wine and a few glasses.
John turned to Sherlock, his eyes filled with surprise.
Sherlock shrugged as if ordering for him was the most natural thing in the world. And of course, he'd know exactly what John would want.
The fact that the earth orbits the sun was completely unimportant to him, but it was with the utmost clarity that he had John's food preferences memorized, apparently.
"To be completely honest with you, John, I've never done this before," Sherlock admitted, not betraying one shred of emotion.
John's eyes darted around the room a few times before he grew curious. "You mean…going out for dinner? We did a few nights ago, at that place on Northumberland Street."
Sherlock scoffed. "That was a 
 not going out to dinner. We didn't have the chance to eat if you recall."
John nodded. "Well, alright, but surely you've done this at some point. With a…" John was about to say girl, but he wasn't sure about that. "Someone."
Sherlock smiled. "With a 
. No, you're the first. At least the first time I'm attending a restaurant for leisure and not business."
John smiled too. "Well, um…usually on occasions like this, the people…who are eating together…talk about each other."
"We're supposed to talk about each other 
 each other?"
"Yes."
Sherlock seemed confused as if he didn't understand the relevance. "What would be the point? I know everything about you."
John scoffed. "I'm sure you do, but I don't know 
 about 
." His voice was laced with regret.
"You know I have a website, you know I'm a consulting detective, you know my habits, likes dislikes, hobbies, odd tendencies. You're my flatmate, you know everything there is to know about me."
John sighed. "Not really."
"What do you wish to know?" Sherlock asked, leaning his chin on his folded hands over the table. 
John thought for a moment. "How did you get into all this in the first place?"
"Being a consulting detective," Sherlock said, but not in the tone one would use to ask a question.
"Yes, I was wondering why you had an interest."
Sherlock gazed openly and intensely at John, making color rise to his cheeks.
"Well…initially, I wanted to be a pirate."
