 
Olesia had lost track of how many hours she had been here. To be honest, Olesia wasn't even sure when exactly she had arrived in this place. She couldn't even remember falling asleep or waking up. All she knew was that somehow she had become aware of her surroundings. At first everything was so hazy for Olesia, like she was in the midst of a drug and alcohol induced high or in the midst of struggling for breath as she drowned in the middle of the ocean. Then came the headache.
The pounding headache that seemed like it was on the verge of killing her, Olesia wasn't sure what had happened. All that she knew was that it felt like she had been hit over the head repeatedly with some kind of jackhammer. It felt like her head was going to explode although Olesia knew that was physically impossible as a person's head couldn't explode. An aneurysm could rupture. She could be decapitated. But a head couldn't solely explode on it's own. It wasn't scientifically possible as far as she knew.
At first Olesia assumed that she was suffering from some kind of hangover, caused by an excessive consumption of vodka. That was rather plausible. Despite the fact that she was currently under the age when it came to consuming alcohol, it had never stopped Olesia finding some means of getting hold of alcohol.
However, this wasn't like any of those other times when Olesia had woken up the next morning after a night of drinking. She couldn't smell the alcohol radiating from her pores, she hadn't woken up in the guest bedroom of a friends house. This time had been different. She felt like crap, everything hurt and as she wearily opened her eyes, Olesia wasn't surprised to see that she had woken up somewhere and yet again she had no idea where she had woken up. This was kind of the story of her life right now, lately nothing had really made much sense to Olesia. It was like there were dark and stormy clouds everywhere within Olesia's head and at the present it seemed that everything was just so dull and colourless.
It was like her entire world had come to a stop and Olesia Ashby didn't know what to do, for the first time in her life she didn't know what to do and she couldn't think of some brilliantly sarcastic response. Right now everything was such a mess, it had been ever since Olesia had that weird dream and since that night, nothing had been the same. Awkwardly sitting up, Olesia had found herself to be in a very small room, except this wasn't really a room.
It was a cell. Small in size, rather ugly in colour and uncomfortable as hell. This hadn't indicated anything good for Olesia. This was not good in the slightest. Olesia had no idea how on earth she had gotten but she knew that she needed to quickly get out of here and get herself together. Crawling off the paper thin bed that she had been laying on, Olesia was surprised to find how much her body was in pain. Every single muscle in her body seemed to be crying out in pain. Her hands were a mess. Olesia only had to look down to her knuckles to see that they were torn up and bloodied, scrapes covered the rest of her hands and there were scratches across her arms. Something had clearly happened but Olesia couldn't remember what on earth had occurred. She had no idea how her hands had ended up in such a state. Her clothes were gone. God knows where. The only thing that Olesia had on was this hideous plastic white overall which apart form being itchy as hell, somehow managed to smell like cheap burnt plastic.
Somehow Olesia had managed to get herself into quite a bit of trouble, she wasn't sure what kind of trouble she had gotten into but the fact that her clothes were missing, her memory of the last few hours gone and the fact that she was being detained in a police cell suggested that she was in quite a bit of trouble.
This was bad. Olesia had realized that pretty much from the moment she had connected the dots and figured out where she was. The police officer coming into the cell not long afterwards to ask Olesia for her full name and the number of a parent of guardian for them to get in touch with, just reinforced what she already knew. She was a hundred percent certain that whatever it was that had happened, it was bad enough that the police were wanting to get in touch with her family because it was no doubt serious in nature. Olesia hadn't given them her full legal name, nor did she give them her father's name as he couldn't be dragged into this. She couldn't call him for help.
Olesia knew she couldn't call her father for help. No, Olesia couldn't do that as that would mean dealing with the answers to the questions that she wasn't ready to deal with. Things with her father were already complicated enough without Olesia confronting the man who had raised her every single day of her short life. 5905 days to be precise or rather, 16 years and 2 months if you weren't smart enough to work it out for yourself. Olesia was in trouble and she needed help, but she knew that she couldn't go to her father, which meant the only choice that she really had was to go to the one person besides her father that she couldn't bring herself to ask for help from.
He would never allow her to live it down. Oh no, he would hold it over Olesia's head for the rest of time itself. But Olesia had no choice in the matter. He was the only person who could get her out of this damn mess without her father finding out what had happened.
It had to have been hours since Olesia had told the police officer that the only person she was willing to talk to was Sherlock Holmes. It surely can't have been that hard to track the man down? Search engines did exist, even then that wasn't necessary as Olesia was well aware that the man in question was well known within Scotland Yard as being the world's only consulting detective and a major pain in the arse.
From what Olesia had heard, half the Metropolitan Police force hated him. Olesia could perfectly understand that as she knew from personal experiences that Sherlock had a tendency to rub people up the wrong way but that didn't mean that the man wasn't useful. More than useful actually but Olesia would never bring herself to say it out loud. For the sake of her pride and keeping a certain know it all's ego in check.
Whilst she knew that she wasn't going to be here forever, Olesia wanted to get out of here as soon as she could. Eventually someone was going to notice that she wasn't where she was meant to be and it would only be a matter of time before it got back to her father. The last thing Olesia wanted was a pair of Spooks turning and getting involved. It was got messy at that point. The Official Secrets Act would end up being used to brush this all under some rug and all the information would be put somewhere no one could ever find it. Then the bollocking and a half Olesia would receive would come after that and she would probably be sent away again. She hadn't been sent out the country yet but it was only a matter of time. She had already been through four different schools in the last five years.
"I always knew it was a matter of time before one of us ended up behind bars and you most certainly didn't disappoint. Although I am slightly disappointed with the crime itself, I expected better from you. But then again this read as the desperate attempts of a little girl trying to get daddy's attention."
That voice. Olesia would know it anywhere.
Opening her eyes, Olesia caught sight of two men standing in the doorway of the cell. One of them was known to Olesia as she had known him longer than she had known herself. She'd know him anywhere as his tall figure had been darkening her doorway for many years. He looked the same as the last time Olesia had seen him, pale as ever which just drew attention to his dark curls and blue eyes that seemed as cold as ever. He wore an expression that seemed to suggest he had been sucking on sour lemons. Clearly he wasn't happy to see her. Olesia wasn't thrilled to see him either and she didn't appreciate such a snide comment so early in the morning.
Normally she would have been quick to respond with an insult of her own but she forced herself to bite her tongue. After all she needed his help. If the two of them started volleying insults, she would never make it out of here.
"Whose the stooge?" Olesia began, averting her eyes away from Sherlock to the companion that he had brought along with him, which itself was rare.
As far as she knew, Sherlock Holmes didn't do friends. Everyone was too slow and stupid to keep up with him. Herself included. So, even despite her rather grim situation, Olesia was intrigued to see who on earth had managed to capture the attention of Sherlock. There's no way the great detective would put up with some plain wallflower. Allowing herself to stand up, Olesia awkwardly took a few steps forward and took a good and hard look at the man with Sherlock.
He was shorter than Sherlock, marginally shorter but there was this commanding authority that came from him by the way in which he held himself. He was a stark contrast to Sherlock. Blonde hair with little tinges of grey, warm eyes that didn't threaten to turn you into stone if you looked into them for two was no aloofness plastered over his face. No arrogant smirk hidden in the corner of his mouth. Just a warm smile. There were wrinkles and laugh lines on his face, he seemed worn and weary but not so much for Olesia to believe that his life had been full of hardships. If it had been, he would have looked a lot older than he did.
"Dr. John Watson."
Olesia looked out to the hand that was being offered out towards her by Dr. Watson and she couldn't help but purse her lips together as that name sounded awfully familiar. Although she wasn't quite sure where she knew it from. 
This was going to annoy Olesia for a good while, at least until she figured it out. There was no way he was a shrink, 
ven Sherlock knew not to get psychiatrists involved as that would only result in the two of them being locked up in some facility. No, that wasn't how Olesia knew of the good doctor. It was something else. 
There was some sort of connection between the two men in front of her. 
The two of them together. It took a couple of moments but it finally hit Olesia where she knew the name from. She had come across it in some file that she wasn't supposed to have been reading.
"Ahhh, yes… The roommate. Dr. John Watson, formerly of the Fifth Northumberland Fusiliers. The one with the blog if I remember correctly." Olesia wearily announced before letting out an almighty yawn and wearily rubbing her eyes. She felt exhausted beyond compare and now, Olesia just wanted to get out of here and go get some sleep.
"Now that we've got that delightful bit of tedious conversation out of the way, what is it that you want? I doubt you had me brought all the way here because you were in search of stimulating conversation" Sherlock questioned and Olesia rolled her eyes. Of course he was going to make her say it, Olesia should have known better than to think that the great detective would make this easy for her.
"I need your help. I seem to have found myself in rather difficult situation and since I'm a minor, I needed to call someone. You may not be suitable to be an appropriate adult but even you can surely pretend to be one for the sake of getting me out of here." Olesia forced herself to admit through gritted teeth. Being gracious wasn't one of her finest quality and having to ask Sherlock to help her out was painful as hell. It would be easier to get blood out of a stone. But here Olesia was swallowing her damn pride.
"My help? The great Olesia Ashby needs my help? I thought you didn't need my help—"
"—Could you 
 any more louder? I didn't give the police my real name and I would like for it to stay that way. We both know what happens the moment they put my name through a computer and I'd like to avoid having the Spooks or someone from the MoD turn up. Just get me out of here and I'll sacrifice myself on the alter of dignity later." Olesia spat in annoyance, she was really regretting calling Sherlock.
"Why not call Mycroft?" Sherlock retorted and Olesia hissed in response, of course he was going to bring up the one person that she didn't want to mentioned. That was always his go to retort whenever they fell into their routine of volleying insults as if they were at Wimbledon.
"You know full well that I don't like bothering him, besides I have no desire to speak to my father at this time, hence why I called you. Besides you still owe me for the Rice noodle thing, I took the fall for an international incident that you caused—"
"—Father? Mycroft is your father? You're all related..." John interrupted and Olesia just frowned as she watched the good doctor look between herself and Sherlock. It seemed like he was unaware that this was a not so happy family reunion that he was in the middle of. Olesia wasn't surprised that this little fact hadn't been brought up earlier, she wasn't exactly Sherlock's favourite relative. Although it wasn't exactly that hard to miss. There was some family resemblance.
"Supposedly, although I'm still convinced that I am a result of human cloning project gone wrong… I suppose I should properly introduce myself, I'm Olesia Ash-" Olesia began, only to be interrupted by a not so subtle cough.
Olesia couldn't help but roll her eyes in irritation, apparently it was perfectly alright for Sherlock to address her by the name that she had chosen to go by. Yet, she had to refer to herself by her full given name. That was ludicrous! Olesia never used her last name, she had been going by one of her middle names; Ashby for as long as she could remember. Not even at school did Olesia use her full name. The only way you could link Olesia to her family name was by her birth certificate and passport. Neither of which she ever had much use for.
"Allow me to correct myself Dr. Watson. My name is Olesia. Olesia Winnick Ashby Holmes." Olesia began before trailing off before she could fully finish her explanation as her mind went blank and all of a sudden this wave of light-headedness hit her and she stumbled back a few steps, now there was this all too familiar metallic taste in her mouth. It was overwhelming and Olesia felt sick to her stomach. She knew what was coming. A bloody seizure. Olesia could not believe that this was happening. Not here and especially not right now. This day was going from bad to worse.
"Olesia?"
She needed to pull herself together for a second. Olesia wasn't going to be able to stop it, the warning signs had come. She just had time to prepare her companions for what was about to come. At least there was a doctor this time, that much Olesia could be thankful for. She probably wouldn't remember any of this in about half an hour. Olesia forced herself to look straight ahead to Sherlock. Her blue eyes looking into his own blue eyes.
"Oh fuck
."
