I glanced out of the small oval window at the barely visible ground below me and laid my head against the back of the seat with an audible sigh. The sky was a dreary grey with thick ominous clouds left behind by a storm that had rattled the cabin. In all, it felt like I'd been on the plane for weeks instead of hours. A voice beside me spoke, effectively snapping me out of my thoughts.
"Visiting London for business or pleasure, love?" The voice came from a middle-aged woman with a kind and genial face. She lifted a paper cup to her lips and took a small swig of the weak bagged tea offered to all guests with a sour expression of distaste.
My mind scanned her without a second thought. She lives alone, with three cats and a dog - an obvious divorcee with no children. I forced a smile and halted my ever-scattered mind, I'd always been able to deduce the smallest things, things most people were too short-sighted to notice. I don't really count it as a talent, after all, it's only being observant.
"Bit of both really," I finally answered, brushing a single strand of amber hair from my eyes.
The elderly woman nodded and remained silent, clearly noticing I wasn't in a sociable mood, and for that I was grateful. I had too much on my mind, no doubt due to my narrow escape from America.
No, no, I mustn't think about that, not here, not now. I looked around the plane hoping to distract myself, and as I did more unwanted observations made themselves 
. I closed my eyes trying to center myself, if I didn't, I'd surely have a panic attack. Sometimes it's all too much, but I can't shut it off - it's a part of me. My mind always moves too fast, like a freight train running out of control. As I steadied my erratic breathing, the pilot came on over the intercom - alerting us of our descent into London.
At last, I was home.
I kept my eyes closed as the plane started its nosedive. In my opinion, this was the worst part of flying. My hands gripped the handrest, no doubt causing my fingers to turn white from my tight grip. Finally, the plane jolted as we met the solid ground. I opened my eyes, glancing down at my hand where the withered fingers of the women beside me were patting my wrist gently. She smiled reassuringly before giving me a thumbs up.
As soon as the stewardess opened the door, I was out of my seat and sliding past my neighbor, grabbing my carry-on - which consisted of two small bags. I slipped out of the plane as fast as was humanly possible, my claustrophobia finally getting the best of me. After being free from the plane, I realized how hungry and in need of caffeine I was. Glancing to my right, I noticed a Starbucks. I was elated to see it, living in America these past three years I'd become addicted to their coffees. After waiting in line, I grabbed a Cold Brew and a large blueberry muffin. Releasing a sigh of relief, I glanced around and quickly found a table in the back.
I hastily claimed the only free table and sat down. I placed my headphones in and turned up the volume - successfully forgetting the world around me. I needed to make a plan, I'd left nearly all of my worldly possessions - apart from my three bags - in California, and looking in my wallet confirmed my worse fears, I was on the verge of being broke. I had two hundred dollars and an almost maxed-out visa to my name.
He'd taken everything from me. I placed a hand on the back of my neck and rubbed a circle, trying to relieve a bit of the stress. No, not everything, not yet. I still had my life, and I was going to make sure he never found me again. I lowered my head and reminded myself why leaving in such a rush was necessary. If he had found out about my plan to come home, I would have been killed, or worse, forced to stay with him. Possessions could be replaced, but my life could not. As hard as starting over is going to be, it will be worth it in the end. No more fear, no more pain.
My frayed nerves started to wear thin, and not even my music was helping, so I slipped into my bag and grabbed a Valium for good measure. No one needed to see me in that state. Exhaling deeply, I shook out my hands. Okay, I had to think now, I had to figure out my plan. Deep down, I knew I'd chosen to escape to England because I needed to feel safe and at home again, but my family wasn't an option. They had disowned me when I decided to move to America with 
 - a brilliant mistake that turned out to be. But even if I tried to grovel, they would never forgive me, they were too proud. Besides, he would look there first, I was sure of it.
I felt my throat tighten in fear and placed a hand there, rubbing at my skin uselessly. I calmed myself with a simple promise. Never again will sentiment be my downfall. Since my family was not an option, there was only one other person I could trust. Luckily, he himself had just returned home.
John Watson had been my first love and best friend. I didn't want to pull him into my drama but fear is a powerful emotion. I pulled out my phone and looked through my texts from him - finally finding the one I wanted. He'd very recently sent me his new address, emphatically telling me to stop by for a visit whenever I came home. 
 With the address in hand, I made my way to the exit, hailing a taxi.
"Where to, love?" the cabbie asked, eyeing me in the rearview mirror.
I took a deep steadying breath. "221B Bakers Street," I said.
Well here goes nothing; John Watson, here I come.
