Who would have thought that five years could go so quickly, not John Watson that's for sure. With Rosamund's fifth birthday right at the door and UNCLE Sherlock's apartment full with all of her presents, John knew there was only one thing left to do the time had come to get Rosamund INTO the car he took a deep finally built up the courage to speak the words of 
John:Please come get in the car.
NOOOO!Cried a young girl from inside the house.
John: Rosamund please don't start,the car monster won't get you I promise.
Rosamund: But...But DADDY!
John:No But Rosamund, unless you come get in the car, we can't go see your favorite UNCLE...
Rosamund: SHERLOCK.
John sighed as he buckled little Rosamund into her seat,then he rush to the front door to make sure he had locked the house before getting into the car. With no sign of traffic, John made his way to the apartment in just 15 minutes.
Rosamund: Daddy look, we're here,we're here YAY!
John thought to him self as he parked up, How can anyone so young and so small have lungs so big?He guessed that she was just excited to see her UNCLE Sherlock.
Rosamund hurried to the door and knocked as hard as her small,delicate hands would let her on the door.A kind elderly lady opened the door and took one look at Rosamund before placing a large but gentle smile on her face.
Mrs Hudson:Hello sweetie, what brings you here did you miss me?
Rosamund: HELLO! I always miss you when I go home,but I'm here to see UNCLE is my fifth birthday.
Mrs Hudson:Oh you are so cute,I believe your UNCLE is still asleep.
Rosamund: Not for long I'm gonna WAKE HIM UP!
With that said, Mrs Hudson politely moved to the side as Rosamund flashed up the stairs to the apartment. A very tired John Watson stumbled behind after just about locking the car. Hudson,let out a small chuckle before closing the door behind him.
Mrs Hudson:You look like you could use a cup of tea the boyfriend is upstairs and I'll bring you both a cup in once the tea is ready. Unfortunately, I haven't got any biscuits though,forget to pick them up yesterday. Oops!
John:Your the best Mrs Hudson,Sherlock isn't my...
Mrs Hudson:BOYFRIEND I know,but you to make such a cute pair.
5 minutes later Mrs Hudson brought in the two cups of tea and Sherlock fell off the sofa as Rosamund dashed into the lounge.
Rosamund: Morning UNCLE Sherlock!
Sherlock:Morning.
Sherlock's groan made Mrs Hudson,Rosamund bust out into hysterics whilst John let out a rather loud groan. Sherlock and John sat next to each other on the sofa,drank their cup of tea and watched adorable little Rosamund play snakes and ladders with Mrs Hudson who was very clearly losing.
