I've had a rough day… I turned eighteen today and my father, Mycroft, thought that after eighteen years of hiding me I was finally old enough to be shown to the world. So he took me with him to Sherlock who immediately started with deducting me. It was annoying but I could live with it because all of it was right. After that, all of his friends came to see me because a few hours earlier they didn't even know I existed. But it was too much so I ran out of 221B and since then I walked around without a real destination.
It's 2 AM and I'm still walking all alone through London. But I have the feeling that I'm being watched or followed so I quickly turn around but I can't see anyone so I keep on walking. But I can't shake off that feeling so I start to run, only to be stopped right after turning the corner because of a man who steps out of the shadows. He is dressed in a black suit and his dark brown hair is slicked back and he grins devilish. I stop right on time otherwise I would have bumped into him and that wouldn't have ended well. 
 He says while walking towards me. 
 I say, more confident than I actually feel. He chuckles and says, 
 
 I try to run away but he grabs my arm and turns me around so I'm looking right at him. I look in his eyes and it shocks me that all I can see in them is hatred and something else I can't place just yet. 
 He looks at something behind me and the next thing I remember is darkness. So I was right, someone did follow me!
When I wake up I'm lying in a king-sized bed in a really big and bright room. The walls are yellowish and the curtains are red. I can see a closet and a chair next to my bed and furthermore there are two doors, one probably the door that leads to the hallway and one that leads to a bathroom. Rays of sunshine stream into the room and I have a hard time keeping my eyes open. First I think that I fell asleep in 221B and Mycroft took me home while I was sleeping but then I remembered that I didn't stay at 221B. Then I remember the strange man and what happened. 'NO, I have to get out of here!', I think and at that exact moment, I hear someone knocking. I lie back, pretending to be sleeping. I can hear the door opening and someone walks towards the bed. Judging by the sound the shoes make it is a man, probably the man from last night… While I'm trying to keep my breathing steady like I'm really sleeping I hear him talking and I recognize the voice, it indeed is the same man. 
 I don't react because I'm actually really afraid. 
I can hear him walking away and when the door shuts I sigh in relief. Okay, he knows I'm awake and he wants to talk with me. I really want to know what's going on and why I'm here and who he is so maybe I should go, I never was that good at controlling my curiosity. So I walk to the closet and open it, he was right there was a dress inside of it. It is a long strapless red dress that reaches my ankles and that has red flowers around my waist and it has an open back. It is a really beautiful dress and I am truly happy that the dress fits me.
I quickly did my hair (all the things I needed for my hair were in the bathroom, which surprised me) and I found a pair of shoes matching my dress (which also surprised me). I then open the door and go downstairs where The Man is waiting for me and watching me while I walk down the stairs silently cursing myself for being so stupid to go out in the middle of the night all alone.
