Notes: I can't believe that I am about to post chapter one of this story. i have been writing it in my head before season 4 it honestly feels like my baby and now it is here. I really hope you like it Enjoy!
Waiting was all she could do. The girl was on her own and there was nothing else she could do. Well, she knew she wasn't on her own. She could sense the other people around her, the ones who had put the earpiece in and the bombs on her body, with only a coat to cover them up. The other people were not anywhere that could be seen. They were hiding, it almost made her want to laugh because in some ways that is what she had been doing all her life.
How did I end up here? she asked herself. One moment she had been asleep in bed at the boarding school her uncle made her go to, to keep her out of the way, the next thing she knew was that she was being kidnapped in the middle of the night. Now she was here and wasn't sure why.
Her legs were beginning to hurt from standing up for so long; she could feel the burn go right up the back of them. The weight of the vest wasn't helping, she knew she needed to sit down soon. If only they had not taken her wheelchair off her, she knew she would be able to sit down. But they had, because they were bastards and wanted to prove a point.
Time seemed to drag, she wasn't sure how long she been there before she heard a door open, and footsteps echo around the pool. "Brought you a little getting to know you present," a deep voice said.
It shocked her when she heard it. This voice was one that had been following her all her life, though she never expected to hear it in person. "That's what it's all been for, isn't it?" he continued on. "All your little puzzles making me dance. All to distract me from this."
The voice in her ear told her to walk out, and for the first time in her life, she was face to face with Sherlock Holmes. "Evening," the child said to him.
His eyes went wide with shock, it took him a moment to register that another child had been taken and used once again. "Bet you never saw this coming," the young girl said, as she opened the coat to reveal the bombs. The words coming out of her mouth were ones he knew she didn't want to say. "What would you like me to make her say … next?" she asked, repeating the words from her earpiece.
"I can help, you know," Sherlock said ignoring her words. "Tell me your name. I'm Sherlock. I can help you. Okay?"
"Gottle o' gear Gottle o' gear"
"Stop it." Sherlock said firmly "She's a child, and should not be here. Let her go, her parents must be terrified."
If only he knew the truth, the child thought to herself, knowing if she told him it would be a huge risk. "Are you terrified?"
The question made him turn and look at her. "What?"
"Are you terrified?" The question was asked, with a slight tremor in her voice.
It took him a few long moments to answer. One wrong move could spell disaster. "No" came his one-word response.
Behind Sherlock, the door opened. John Watson walked in looking at his phone. "Look I don't know why you called me here. There's no one here Sherlock. The whole place is empty. I'm missing a whole night I could be spending with Sarah." When his friend did not say anything back, he looked up.
In front of him, he saw Sherlock with a girl who couldn't be any older than twelve. Though she looked young, she held herself well for the situation she was in. Something about her seemed familiar to him, she was short, with shoulder-length brown hair and a slight upturned nose he was sure he'd seen somewhere before.
"Bloody hell! What the hell is going on here?" he shouted his voice echoing around the room.
"I don't know," Sherlock said turning to look at him. "That's what I am trying to work out."
"Are you okay?" John asked her.
She just about nodded. "I stopped him," the girl said. "I can stop her too. Stop her meaningless heart. Worked out who she is yet?" Small tears started to escape down her face.
Another door opened and a voice he recognised echoed around the quiet pool. "I gave you my number. I thought you might call," it mocked, then continued. "Is that a British Army Browning L9A1 in your pocket, or are you just pleased to see me?"
Sherlock pulled a gun from his back pocket and pointed it at the man. "Both."
"Jim Moriarty. Hi. Jim? Jim from the hospital? Oh, did I really make such a fleeting impression? But then, I suppose that was rather the point."
A red dot now appeared on both the child and John. Sherlock flashed Jim a warning look. "Don't be silly, someone else is holding the rifle," Jim spoke again, continuing with, "I don't like getting my hands dirty. I've given you a glimpse Sherlock, just a teensy glimpse of what I've got going on out in that big bad world. I'm a specialist, you see."
The child zoned out for a minute, the pain in her legs was making it difficult to follow the conversation. She was brought back when a shout came from the man who had kidnapped her.
"I will stop you," Sherlock said to him.
"No, you won't" Jim mocked back.
Sherlock looked at the girl again. "Are you all right?"
She moved her head to look up at him. This time he could see her looking at him. She didn't say anything, Sherlock could tell she was too scared to do so.
Moriarty came up behind her and whispered into her ear, though it was loud enough for the detective to hear. "You know you can talk, little lady. Go on - tell him who you are. I don't think he's figured it out yet. Go on, tell him your name. Your full name."
It took a moment for her to find her voice. "My names Samantha, 'Sam' Hooper … Holmes."
Sherlock's eyes went wide and for a moment Sam thought he was going to drop the gun. "What?" The detective went into thinking mode. "I have a niece." Sherlock muttered to himself. "Why wouldn't Mycroft tell me?" Behind him a door opened.
For the fourth time that night, a door opened to the swimming pool and someone else ran in. This time it was someone everybody knew. "Ah, Molly. Glad you could join us," Moriarty welcomed.
Sherlock turned and saw Molly, a woman he had known since his university days, standing in the spot where he had been when he first entered the pool. "Mycroft slept with Molly," he deduced out loud. "But that's not possible. I was the one sleeping with her thirteen years … ago."
John sniggered behind Sherlock as everything slowly started to dawn on the detective. He turned once again to look at Sam.
"Congratulations Daddy, it's a girl," Moriarty said, taking a step closer to Sam, which made Sherlock take one step forwards. "Oh, he has instantly got more protective of you, now he knows who you are. Funny that."
"You're my daughter?" Sherlock questioned, really looking at her. "Are you sure?"
"Pretty sure, Mum has always said it was you. Plus, Mycroft had a hundred different DNA tests done just to be sure."
It took Molly a moment to process everything that was happening in front of her. First, her daughter, the one she had kept a secret for over a decade, was now face to face with her dad. A part of Molly always knew the day would come, when she would have to tell Sherlock about Sam, especially when they both came back into each other's lives now she was working at Bart's. Though she never expected them to meet in this way, her daughter with a bomb vest on. She could see both Sam and Sherlock looking at her, scared. They were trying hard to not let it show. Molly wanted to help both of them, but knew who to look after first.
"Sam, are you okay?" Molly asked, walking towards her daughter.
"We have a daughter?" Sherlock asked confusedly, as his voice echoed around the room.
"You two have had sex?" John put in. "Sherlock are you sure you know how to do that?"
"As much as I hate to break up this joyous family reunion, you all might die in a minute," Moriarty said, as more red dots appeared on the rest of the people in the room.
"I'm fine, Mum," Sam replied bravely.
"Are you two sure you had sex?" John asked, still not quite getting the situation.
"I'm pretty sure I wouldn't exist otherwise. I told Sherlock about the DNA tests Mycroft had done. Do keep up John. By the way, I do love your blog," responded Sam in place of her father, rolling her eyes.
John's mouth fell open. "Fucking hell, she's both of you at once."
"Why didn't you tell me?" Sherlock questioned, looking over at Molly.
"Mycroft ... thought it was best if I didn't tell you," Molly said, not looking at him.
to
stated,
"Wait till I see my brother next, I swear to god he's an arsehole at times," Sherlock said, getting angry.
"God, I know, right?" Sam agreed. "I don't know about you, but half the time it's like he's got a rod shoved up his backside. I'd have more luck at taming a lion than making him smile."
"Don't talk about your uncle that way," Molly said sternly, making all the men and Sam stand a bit straighter.
"Sorry, Mum."
"Are you sure you're okay?" Molly asked her daughter again.
"My legs are hurting, and I really need to sit down … they took my chair off me," Samadmitted, knowing her mum would not be happy with the last part.
Molly saw red. "Wait, they did what?"
Jim chose that moment to remind everyone that he was still there. "Don't worry, it's not too far away. She'll have it back if she lives."
Sherlock turned his head slightly to the side to glance at Molly, still keeping the gun pointed at the smaller man, "What's wrong with her?"
"I have CP," Sam said.
"What?" Sherlock asked, now looking to John for help.
"Cerebral Palsy?" John asked.
"Yes," Sam spoke back.
"What is that?" Sherlock asked, getting even more confused.
Everyone looked at him, surprised that he didn't know. "Sherlock, it's a form of brain damage," Molly explained. "It affects each person who has it differently. For Sam, it's in her legs, which makes it hard to use them. Standing up for long periods of time can be difficult."
"Which is why I need to sit down now," Sam supplied. "Oi, arse face," she said, turning to look at Moriarty, "is it okay for me to sit down in this thing or not?"
"Yes, but you might not live for much longer," Moriarty replied.
"John, would you mind helping me?" Molly asked, gesturing to Sam.
John walked over to Sam and took her left side, and Molly gently took her right. Together they both helped her, so she was sitting on the ground. "You shouldn't call people arse face," Molly said in a scolding tone to her daughter.
"I got your text. He hurt you and messed with your feelings. That means I can call him what I like. Nobody upsets you and gets away with it," Sam answered, a little belligerently.
"Here, take this," Sherlock said, holding out the memory stick towards Moriarty. "Let them go."
"Oh, that's the missile plans." Moriarty turned to look at Sam. "You must be pretty important for him to give these up. Boring. I could have got them anywhere." Moriarty threw the stick into the pool.
"Jim, why are you doing this?" Molly asked.
This made Moriarty smile, the fools - none of them had worked it out. He ignored her question. "Do you know what happens if you don't leave me alone, Sherlock, do you?"
"Oh, let me guess. I get killed," Sherlock said uninterestedly.
"Mmm, no. Don't be obvious. I mean, I'm gonna kill you anyway someday. I don't want to rush it, though. No, no n- "
"Can you just rush this part and get to the point please?" Sam interrupted, which got her a couple of 'shut up' looks from John and Molly. Molly then sat down next to Sam and took her hand.
"Sorry if I'm boring you," Moriarty said coldly. "Where was I? Oh, right. I'll burn you. I'll burn the heart out of you."
"I have been reliably informed I don't have one."
"But we both know that's not quite true," Moriarty said turning to look at the person sitting on the floor. "Well, I'd better be off. Glad the family secret is now out of the bag."
"Catch you ... later" Sherlock said.
"No, you won't" Moriarty called back, before he left the room.
The moment he was out of the room, Sherlock was on the ground trying to get the bomb off his daughter. "All right. Are you alright?"
"Yes. Yes, I'm fine, Sherlock." The moment it came off her, Sam threw her arms around her mother. Molly held her tight, not wanting to let her go. Sherlock slid the jacket far away from them.
He walked back over to Molly and their daughter, he could just about make out Molly telling Sam she loved her. "Is she … okay?"
"I think she will be," Molly responded, looking up at him.
Sam turned her head, and for the first time since finding out who she was, Sherlock got a proper look at her. He could see the resemblance between mother and daughter. When she stared up at him, he could see Molly's eyes. "Thanks for getting that thing off of me."
"err ... don't mention it," Sherlock replied back.
"Sherlock, you have a child," John said slowly, still seeming unable to get his head around the fact.
"Is he always this slow?" Sam asked her parents.
This caused Sherlock to laugh. "Welcome to my world."
John joined Sam and Molly on the floor just as the red dots appeared again. Sherlock picked up the gun, trying to work out where he needed to aim it. Moriarty walked back into the room.
Molly covered Sam's ears hoping to protect her in any way she could. Sam could vaguely make out the muffled conversation between the two. She saw Sherlock share a look between John, then with her mother, then he slowly moved the gun down, so its target was now the bomb instead of Moriarty.
Out of nowhere, a song Sam recognised from the radio started playing.
"Do you mind if I get that?" Moriarty asked.
"Oh no, please. You've got the rest of your life."
"Hello. Yes, of course it is. What do you want?"
"Is this how kidnapping situations always go?" Sam asked sarcastically. "I feel like I'm more at a mother's meeting than a hostage situation."
Molly couldn't help but snort at her daughter's comment, "Be quiet, okay?"
"Say that again," Moriarty yelled, making them all jump. "Say that again, and know that if you're lying to me, I will find you and skin you."
"That doesn't seem like much fun," Sam said sarcastically. This time Molly just nudged her.
"Wait," Moriarty said as he walked closer to them. "Sorry, wrong day to die."
"Oh. Did you get a better offer?"
"You'll be hearing from me, Sherlock." Moriarty started to make a call as he left the four people by the pool. "So, if you have what you say you have, I will make you rich. If you don't, I'll make you into shoes." Just as he walked out the door, he clicked his fingers and the red dots were gone.
"What happened there?" John asked.
"Someone changed his mind. The question is, who?"
"Sherlock ... maybe work on the case later and get us out of here." Molly suggested.
"Mum, the people who took my wheelchair left it by the door Jim just went through."
"John would you mind going and … getting it for…S-?" Sherlock asked.
"Sam," Molly finished for him.
"Of course," John said, leaving the three of them alone.
"So ..." Molly said, standing up.
"We have a daughter," Sherlock stated flatly.
Molly bit the side of her lip, "Yes, we do."
The two of them stared at each other for a minute, Sherlock trying to figure out why Molly kept this from him, and Molly was seeing how Sherlock was taking the information about their daughter.
"Could I have a helping hand up, please?" Sam enquired, breaking into the thoughts of both adults.
Molly said, "Sorry love," and walked over to her daughter and grabbed her left hand. "Sherlock, could you take her other side?"
"Oh ... err... yes," Sherlock replied, as he walked over to them, but looked at Molly as he was unsure of what he needed to do.
She could see he was a little lost. "Just grab her right hand, okay?" As they helped Sam up, Sherlock thought to himself that this was his daughter he was helping.
John once again broke him out of his thoughts, when he saw him pushing an empty wheelchair. "Is this the one?" he asked.
"Yes," both mother and child responded at once.
Sam walked the few steps to the chair. It was in those few moments that gave Sherlock time to observe her. Feet don't go properly on the ground. Wobbles a tiny bit. Balance isn't the best. Had surgery but needs more in the future.
Once Molly was sure Sam was okay, she turned to Sherlock and told him what he needed to do next. "Call Mycroft and tell him you know about Sam." After Molly finished her words, she pushed Sam in her wheelchair out of the swimming pool. She was gone before Sherlock could say anything to stop her or his daughter.
Notes: So how is Sherlock going to react when he sees Mycroft I think I feel a fight coming on.
I just want to put it here if anyone is wondering but the reason I gave Sam a disability (Cerebral Palsy) is that I have the condition myself and just want to see more representation of characters like myself. I haven't read many fics with OTP having a child with a disability so I decide to give a go myself.
If you enjoyed please leave some sort of feedback they generally inspire people to write more plus validation is always nice
Also, thanks to goodshipsherlollipop for beta reading this more me. Thank you :-)
