 Thanks to some wonderful followers of my stories who helped me to make the decision to write this diary from Sherlock's perspective. I began writing this in mid March of last year, following some positive feedback from people who said they would be interested in reading the diary, so it has been a long time coming. I have made several revisions along the way obviously, as I have worked on improving my writing technique, but I feel this is a truly unique way of progressing the storyline, because the reader will get to see backstory for Molly that dates from before she meets Sherlock, as well as watch Sherlock and Molly's continuing relationship beyond the honeymoon. I hope you will enjoy it and support me with your feedback as you read the chapters. I'd love to know what you think of my interpretation of Molly as a character as her diary progresses, and whether you enjoy seeing the glimpses of the continuing "real" relationship. This is the story from which all of my 
 stories and Victorian AU's stem. As a result, publication of this particular one will not be as regular. When I reach a dream, I will give the readers some time to read the dream story first if it has already been published. If it is a dream that has not yet been published, I will publish that dream before I continue the diary. So bear with me, as this diary will take several months to reach its completion. In fact, I am still some way from completing it because of all the side stories I have been working on at the same time. I apologize for the long author's note, but I wanted to explain how this diary story is going to play out.
In conjunction with this story, I will be publishing another one (hopefully twice a week), a dream which takes place a few weeks after the birth of Sherlock and Molly's first child, which begins and ends in the "real" world, like my Victorian AU's do. I began writing that one last April and it has been sitting on my iPad for so long, I just wanted to get it published as it is complete, save for revisions. The AU dream chronicles a secret relationship between Sherlock and Molly that follows the canon of the series, but begins with them meeting at university. I hope you will follow that one as well.
You will see dates on this story. I have a specific timeline that ties into my other "real" stories that fall within the timeline, as well as the dream stories. So when a chapter segues into one of these other stories, it will be noted.
Special thanks to reader Elizabeth Robello for providing a a cover image for me of Sherlock reading the diary. A great birthday gift for me!
Sherlock picked up the diary and fingered it lovingly. The title, hand-written on the front said, "
" It was so fitting. His wife, Molly, was a romantic through and through. She had to be, to have waited for him for so long.
This was his wedding present from Molly, and he planned to enjoy it, reading a little at a time. Molly had told him she had started the diary shortly before they met, pouring her thoughts and emotions into it. The bulk of the volume was her thoughts about her feelings for him over the years. She had warned him there was also stuff in there about Tom. After all, Tom had been her fiancé when Sherlock had been gone, but even then, Molly said she had written more about him, Sherlock, than about her former fiancé.
Sherlock was intrigued. To get a glimpse into Molly's heart this way - it was so intimate, yet so much the type of thing she would do. Molly was always so open and loving with him. She never kept secrets the way he had done, except perhaps the extent of her love for him that he had only realised after they had become engaged.
Molly was his anchor in the world, his soulmate. She had been the one to draw him to faith as well. He knew God's hand had been upon him for years, in the many things he had survived, and the many other things that had been revealed to him after he became a Christian.
Molly walked into the sitting room. She had been in the kitchen, preparing their dinner. They had only been back from their honeymoon for two days, so she was not yet back at work.
Noting the slim volume in his hands, she remarked, "So, you are going to start reading it, then?"
"Of course. I wanted to wait until we were back from our honeymoon. I didn't want any other distractions when we were getting to know each other properly," Sherlock said with a smirk. He reached over and placed the diary on the desk beside him, the extended his arms to her, inviting her to come to him.
Molly obligingly sat on his lap and put her arms about his waist, even as he enfolded her into his embrace. "This gift means a lot to me, my darling. The fact that you are so willing to share your innermost thoughts with me this way, it makes me love you even more."
She smiled at him. "I've always been open with you, Sherlock. Well, except about how much I loved you, and that was because I didn't want to frighten you away. I knew in my heart that if we were ever to be together, it would have to be you making that decision." Then her lips quirked, "Okay, save for the fact I asked you to tell me you loved me first. But that was only in reaction to you telling me to say it."
His arms tightened about her waist. "It was obviously God's timing, It was the right time for me to acknowledge it. That emotional breakthrough is what changed my life - our lives." He moved a hand up to stroke her cheek, then kissed her tenderly. "I love you, my beautiful wife."
"And I love you, my wonderful husband," she answered, reluctantly releasing her hold on him. "Well, you had best get to it then, while I keep working on dinner."
"Do you mind if I make a couple comments of my own in reaction to what you say?" Sherlock asked, removing his own arms from her, just as reluctantly.
"Sure," she responded with a nod. "I always used a new page for a new entry and there's usually plenty of room to write underneath. I'm assuming you want me to read your comments too, right?"
"Of course," he replied, patting his wife's knee. "If you are opening your innermost thoughts to me, the least I can do is reciprocate."
"I'll look forward to reading your comments then," she responded and got off Sherlock's lap to continue making their dinner as he turned to the first page in the diary.
Sherlock squinted at the words, then huffed a little. He needed to wear his reading glasses, and he had to get a pencil as well. He rose from his chair and went into the kitchen to retrieve a mechanical pencil from the miscellaneous drawer, using the opportunity to steal a quick kiss from his wife who was next to the sink, chopping up vegetables, and then he hunted for the spectacles, finding them on the corner of his desk. He returned to settle himself comfortably in his chair, perched the glasses on his nose and then proceeded to read from the beginning.
.../.../.../.../.../.../.../.../.../
 
.../.../.../.../.../…/…/
Sherlock set down the glasses, diary, and pencil and walked into the kitchen and took the plates from Molly's hands.
"One kiss before dinner," he told her, "and run your hands through my hair, okay?"
So he kissed his wife's sweet lips and enjoyed the feel of her soft hands threading through his curls. Oh yes, he really took pleasure in it as much as she did.
 I hope you will enjoy this new journey, as Sherlock learns about Molly's thoughts about him and responds to them. I hope too that you enjoy the beginning and ending scenes that take place outside of the diary.
As I stated in my initial author's note, I would love to see feedback from readers on this. Are you intrigued by the unique way I am writing this story? Your feedback is my "tip" for the many hours I spend in making a story fit to publish. Any tip is gratefully received, although I particularly appreciate the big tips where people respond to my questions and offer their thoughts on different parts of each chapter! When you decline to comment on the stories you read, it's a bit like saying "no tip for you!" So please give that some thought when you are enjoying the fruits of someone else's labours, (that means the other authors you read as well).
