Chapter 1- A Wedding, a Birth, and a Shooting.
Sherlock was smiling, one of the few times people really saw him smile, as he stood at the end of the aisle waiting. There she was, walking calmly towards him in a short white dress, and with a bright smile on her face, like not a thing in the world mattered except that both of them were there.
None of his family was and neither was hers, except for her sister Amelia, who was their witness. Amelia was in a short blue dress, standing a little behind the minister, smiling and holding a video camera, as her sister walked towards the groom. The bride continued her slow walk, a bunch of wildflowers from outside in her hands, but none of the place settings or traditions mattered to either of them.
Finally the bride reached the three people standing close together, and Amelia moved in front if the bride and groom to get a good shot.
The bride and groom gazed into each others eyes, and then briefly looked at the minister to let him know they were ready. The minister began,
"We have gathered here today to join this man, and this woman in holy matrimony." As the minister continued to speak, the bride and groom fell even more deeply into each others eyes, and then came time for the vows.
" Do you, William Sherlock Scott Holmes, take this woman to be your lawfully wedded wife? Do you promise to love and cherish her, for richer or for poorer, in sickness and in health, till death do you part."
"I do." Sherlock said.
The minister then turned to the bride.
"Do you, Erica Melody Parks, take this man to your lawfully wedded husband? Do you promise to love and cherish him, for richer or for poorer, in sickness and in health, till death do you part."
"I do." Erica said.
The minister looked at both of them.
"I now pronounce you husband and wife, you may kiss the bride."
...9 months later…
A cry filled the air, and the new mother was relieved, there had been no complications, but she was relieved nonetheless. The newborn was wrapped in a blanket and handed up to where both parents were waiting to see.
" Mrs. Holmes," the doctor said. "You have a daughter."
Both parents smiled looking at the newborn girl, and after a moment she opened her eyes, and looked at both of them with bright blue orbs that seemed to take in everything.
Meanwhile the nurse was filling out the birth certificate.
"Time of birth, 5:02 a.m. What are you going to call her?" The nurse said with a kind smile. Both parents looked at each other, and then back at the newborn girl, the father then spoke up.
"Emma. Emma Jane Holmes."
A little over two years later…
Sherlock walked down the street with a light smile on his face, another case solved. As Erica and little Emma came into view his smile only widened, 2 months after Emma had been born he had resumed taking private cases. He was about six feet away before Emma ran to him with a huge grin on her face.
"Daddy!" she almost yelled. He quickly swooped her up as she ran to him, gave her a quick kiss, before looking over to his wife. She looked like she was about to say something before he heard a bang!
Something seemed to hit Erica in the leg, and she collapsed. He quickly ran the last few feet to her and crouched down, before he heard a bang as something hit the sidewalk beside them. People were screaming and running to find cover, and more shots resonated through the air. Sherlock helped Erica up quickly, and still holding Emma he got them both inside the nearest shop doorway. But not before he felt Erica fall forward, he then felt a slight pain in his elbow that had been behind Erica, and worse pain in his leg. As he got them in the shop, he could hear more shots and the sound of sirens, it would seem the police were arriving, and as they did were ducking behind their cars for cover from the shooter. Erica fell forward and rolled onto her back, and as Sherlock gently set Emma down and made sure she was unhurt, Erica put a hand up to her abdomen. After he had looked over Emma, Sherlock saw blood leaking out from behind Erica's hand. He moved it quickly and realized she had been shot through and through, she was losing a lot of blood and gasped for air.
"Mommy?" Emma asked looking scared.
Sherlock was putting down pressure on the wound, despite his own injuries, and looking at Erica.
"Everything will be fine," he was saying. " You're going to be fine."
Erica just shook her head and whispered.
" I love you…...both of you." and then closed her eyes and was still. Sherlock kept shaking his head and yelled.
"Help! Somebody help! Please!" and the police and an EMT ran in. Emma was pushed to the side, and the EMT began work. More people came into the room, and Sherlock's hands were moved and he was pulled back, while Emma was held gently out of the way by a police officer,
"Sir, your bleeding!" exclaimed one of the EMT's who was not working on Erica. Sherlock tried to protest, but he had lost a good amount of blood by this time and was near unconscious. Both Erica and Sherlock were taken to the hospital by ambulance, and Emma was taken to the police station.
The ride to the hospital was short, but it was already to late. When Erica arrived at the emergency room she was pronounced dead.
