"I want you to meet me for tea…"John keeps the tears from his voice. The other voice, on the other end, cracks_defensive, posturing.
"What for?" Sherlock's voice. A voice meant breath. It meant he was alive. A beloved living human at the other end of this call.
John laughs. He bows his head to hide the silent tears falling down his face, gliding like razors to the pavement. A woman stops by the corner he is leaning against. A stranger floating smokey down the street, perched on a London curb, to see if he's alright. John smiles and waves at her. Smiling stranger waves and passes by again, smokes and ships.
He holds his chin a little higher now.
"What did we used to meet for tea for, mm? To talk about the case. Don't you have one?" John holds his breath. He will go on being this man's friend if it kills him. Sherlock simply doesn't understand it.
"I...Well, I_Yes." Sherlock falls silent again. Calculation betrays him. John sighs inwardly willingly this awkward tension away.
"Then meet me for tea. It won't kill you." John laughs to keep from screaming. Sherlock pauses. Calculation garottes him. John hears it. The sharp swallow_a circus performer and his sword.
"What time?" Sherlock is hastier now. Frantic. A broken reprehensible mock-up of the man he used to be. John doesn't care. He loved this man before. His brother before. He loved him no less now.
"As soon as you're free is nice, Sherlock, really." John rubs his nose.
"I'm...um...Across the street." Sherlock stumbles over himself embarrassed. No way that he could be across the street unless he'd traced this call on purpose and been following him for the last 30 minutes they'd been on the phone.
John looks up. There. On the windswept curb, the way the stranger had come and gone. Scarf tied much too tight. He shouldn't be wearing a scarf and long sleeves in summer, but he's trying to hide them. The scars.
John waves. Sherlock comes closer. He is biting his lip. Nervous. Guarded. Holding one arm. Trying to discreetly tug the scarlet sleeve down over the matching purple vines that were made by electrocution torture.
They are beautiful. John wants to tell him, but he doesn't know how. Like a majestic ivy growing down ivory_the skin and the scar and the scarlet. The picture of a living man garotted by awkwardness and the silken black scarf he's tied around his neck to hide the rest of the visible scarring.
There is one that he can't hide though. A little tear-shaped scar on his right cheek. That didn't come from the Lichtenburg figures. It came rather from the tool which Moriarty's men used to create them.
"Hi." John smiles. What else should he say?
"Hello." Sherlock frowns. That's a start.
"I invited. So, I'm buying." John nods over his shoulder.
Sherlock winces at the people within. This isn't the busiest cafe in London, but it has people nonetheless. People will stare. Someone will spread this. This the rumor that John Watson is visiting with that wretched creature Holmes again.
John smiles at Sherlock. Smiles broadly then to the rest of the cafe as if he is announcing his association with this wretched man to the whole of England. People see them and some of them snarl in disgust. Myopic little trolls.
John orders English Breakfast tea for both of them even though it is 2:30 in the afternoon. They sit on the patio under a bursting bush of roses. It's something from the cinema and John likes it.
Sherlock spreads a napkin over his hands to hide his scars and fend John from asking about them. John studies them, wishing he could examine them closely, a doctor's strange curiosity for the grotesque alerted.
"How are you?" John asks, taking Sherlock's hand,giving it a little shake as he lets the napkin slide to the ground.
Sherlock looks up in immense surprise.
"I-I...Oh, fine."
A thousand things hung by the nail of that one little "
".
