Hello everyone! This is my first Sherlock fanfic, hopefully it turns out alright. The way this story will be is shortish chapters, it depends on how long the scene is.
Enjoy
ᴍᴏɴᴅᴀʏ — 7:48 ᴀᴍ
They received the call from Lestrade early that morning. He had given them little but only said it was important and to get to Llansannor Dr immediately. Sherlock had jumped at the opportunity to have a new case, especially one that the Yard needed help on. John was more on the reluctant side, he didn't appreciate driving thirty minutes across town on a two-minute phone call — adding on that Sherlock had woken him up for this.
But the pair arrived later just as the sun was rising.
John shivered, pulling his jacket tighter around him to try and preserve warmth. They were by a dock and wind blowing off of the water was cold, the layers of fabric provided little insulation. Police swarmed the area, silent lights flashed red and blue on top of police cars illuminating their faces when passed.
"What do you think is going on?" John asked to Sherlock, who didn't answer but peered inside an empty ambulance instead. As the man went exploring, John glanced around. When there was no sign of Lestrade he pressed his lips together in annoyance.
"Over here John." He snapped to attention as Sherlock slinked past a group of officers exiting a building. They paid him no mind and John thought it'd be best to quickly follow before they took notice that two men were out of place at a crime scene.
He had entered a small warehouse, and something caught his eye that caused his stomach to flip violently.
A man was strapped to a chair, dry blood covered him along with numerous wounds. His fingers were twisted, bone poking out in parts. A heavy chain was secured to one of his ankles, and the other was mangled as if someone had taken a sledgehammer to it. The eyes were gouged out and jaw broken so it hung open unnaturally. Sitting on the swollen tongue were the eyes. His shirt had been ripped open to reveal a message engraved in the skin,
Sherlock leaned towards the body, his hand hovering over each of the words, mouthing them as his fingers moved along. Finally he stood and faced Lestrade a ghost of a smile.
"I'll take it."
ᴛʜʀᴇᴇ ᴡᴇᴇᴋs ʟᴀᴛᴇʀ / ᴡᴇᴅɴᴇsᴅᴀʏ 3:16 ᴘᴍ
221B stood in front of her. Margaret pulled out the address Mycroft had given her a few days ago to make sure she was at the right place. She would be terribly embarrassed if she knocked on the wrong door. But just like the last thirty-six times she glanced at the paper, the writing had not changed. And so with a smile gracing her face, she knocked.
"Coming! Coming!" A muffled voice rang out from inside. Seconds later the door opened to reveal a small woman. She looked Margaret over once, surprise was in her eyes and she felt the woman didn't get many visitors — many 
 visitors. The one in the doorway finally snapped from her daze and asked, "Hello dearie how may I help you?"
She remembered to keep her smile, it was always good to keep up appearances when greeting new people. "Is Sherlock in?"
A look of shock overtook her and she put a hand on her chest, leaning in to whisper, "Sherlock?!"
Margaret nodded eagerly. "Yes I would be delighted if you could point me in the right direct–" The woman's eyes gleaned with a mischievous flare as she suddenly ushered her in.
"He usually wouldn't take new clients when this busy but maybe he'll make an exception, the poor soul needs a break anyways. Come come I'll show you his room." She stood in the foyer for a few moments, holding onto her luggage and watched her march up the stairs all the while shouting Sherlock's name and about how 'there's a woman here to see you!'. With a sigh Margaret gripped her suitcase handle and began dragging it up the stairs. Each flight was tiresome but thankfully it was over soon.
She found the woman standing cautiously in a doorway. She noticed my arrival and exclaimed, "Sherlock she's here please come and greet her!"
"I've already told you Mrs. Hudson I do not want any–" A gunshot. Margaret gave the elderly woman a concerned look but she rolled her eyes like it was nothing to worry about, clearly she was used to Sherlock's behavior and didn't approve. "visitors while I am working this case."
Another voice spoke up sounding worn out, this one wasn't Sherlock's. "Thank you Mrs. Hudson but I don't think this is the time. Could you please turn her away?"
Mrs. Hudson wrung her hands together, her lips pressed into a firm line before she scoffed. "Oh alright. But don't blame me about this missed opportunity!"
"What 'missed opportunity?'" Sherlock called out, enunciating letters mockingly.
The woman threw a hand in his direction but it couldn't be seen for a wall already separated them as she walked towards her. "I apologize but Sherlock doesn't seem to be in the mood to take on another case."
Margaret's lips twitched into a smile. "I'm hardly a 
 Mrs. Hudson. But I would like to see him anyways."
Mrs. Hudson seemed worried, probably that he'd shoot her, but in the end she sighed and said, "Oh alright, be careful now."
She nodded, bypassing her. Leaving her luggage behind, she walked to the doorway and observed the room. Sherlock stood on a couch a bathrobe wrapped tightly around his waist, a gun was in his hand and he tapped it gently against his skull as he thought. The other man whose voice she hadn't recognized sat facing her. His eyes connected with her pale green ones and he straightened his back as if going to stand. "Can I help you?" He asked. Sherlock flipped around and aimed the gun at her, the man in the chair sighed moving to pinch the bridge of his nose.
However she was not fazed. Her eyes met Sherlock's and was satisfied to see him unease — confused even — for once. He lowered the gun and stuffed it between the belt and bathrobe. Slowly he got off the couch but didn't approach her.
The stranger in the room noticed Sherlock's odd behavior and asked, "Who is she? Do you know her, Sherlock?"
But his attention was focused on her. He questioned, "What are you doing here?"
Margaret raised her brows at him. But it was Sherlock she shouldn't expect a hug or anything. So she only shrugged and answered, "It's good to see you too, brother."
