This takes place during The Lying Detective, after John Watson goes with Sherlock and Molly for cake, but before he meets back up with his "therapist".
"
John closed his eyes listening to the rest of the struggle, hands grasping to find grip, the racing beeps of the monitor, the last rally of a heart before the door burst open.
"And that's where you came in Doctor." Mycroft's unwavering voice supplemented as he cut the recording off.
The retired army doctor shifted his weight, crossing his arms out of habit. "And I suppose the precinct knows you have a copy of this?"
The elder Holmes did not respond, instead, he turned his attention to ejecting the tape and putting it away with the files.
John had been at a bakery with Sherlock and Molly when he had gotten the text from Mycroft. It simply read "I'll have a word with you before you retire home." He had put it off as long as possible, but Sherlock wasn't strong enough to stay out too long, and Molly had driven him home, leaving John with no choice but to give in and take the still-waiting car to see what he was summoned for.
First had been the video. A bad angle, but Sherlock was near the Thames, having what appeared to be a mental breakdown on his own. He threw something into the water (Watson could have sworn it was a pistol) and collapsed, seeming to take a moment before coming to and looking around, panicked. Next had been the recording. Inadmissible in court maybe, but chilling to listen to.
 He sighed as Mycroft was pulling letters out of the same file, and readied himself for whatever was next.
John skimmed the papers as he was handed them, and his mouth settled into the tight line it always did as he concentrated. Lists.
"He sent them for a while, before he gave up." Watson was no Sherlock, but even he could hear the worry in Mycroft's voice. "One can guess it only got worse from there."
Page after page. Sherlock started the lists slowly, building up in length from there. On the third list he must have decided they weren't isolated incidents, and he started to number them. But by the tenth list the writing shook such that it was illegible. There were three more useless lists before they ended, but John didn't like what they said. Alcohol he expected. The occasional pills. Nicotine patches were so often abused by Sherlock he was surprised the detective bothered to list them. Cocaine he anticipated as well, though the last one took him by surprise. "Heroin?"
"It's not the first time he's let that particular demon grab hold of him, but this time he's taken it further than most."
"Well he's off it now." John stated firmly, folding the letters and handing them back to Mycroft.
"Yes. Though the hospital sent him home with medications, narcotics, following the rather impressive set of injuries he accumulated from your boot if I recall." Mycroft tucked the letters back into their folder. John swallowed, feeling a pang of guilt. "His last dose should be this evening if he's been taking it on prescribed schedule as I'm sure your round-the-clock watch party has made sure of."
"Well yes-"
"And as a medical Doctor you know what's coming next."
Watson took a deep breath. Withdrawal. These lists stopped weeks before the present, and there was almost no chance Sherlock hadn't kept up his destructive path that entire time.
"I spoke with him only briefly before he cast me from his room. I never have been able to convince him to detox under any professional guidance."
"I knew he used before, he's…" John searched for the right words, feeling like these words were too harsh for his friend. "This has happened before?"
"I've found you're something of a rock in my little brother's life. Prior to your influence Sherlock fought these battles on a number of occasions. I helped as best I could, but he always seemed to find his way back. For a brief time I considered that maybe those days were behind him. Then the slip up after his imprisonment…" He paused. "The isolation was always where it went wrong."
Of course recent weeks had been a fresh bout of isolation for his own guilt to fester as John turned his back on the detective. He closed his eyes again, not letting his mind spiral into a fresh bout of panic and blame. He was surprised by Mycroft's next question.
"Have you forgiven him, doctor?"
"Yes." He thought back on events that happened just hours ago. He had forgiven Sherlock only recently, but he still felt indignant at the question. "Of course I have."
"Very little, very late."
"Yes." Watson spat, wondering what point Mycroft was working up to, or if he was just inflicting shame for shame's sake. This was Sherlock's brother's way of caring.
"Are you ready to be there for him? He won't admit how much he needs it, but I've been there through his recoveries. I've held his hand as his world spins out of control. There's nothing that frightens my brother more than this acute vulnerability and shame. He needs you now more than he ever has."
"I'll be there." John repeated, firmly.
"Good. I've already spoken with Molly. She'll be with Rosie for the next few days."
"
John Watson stared out the side window of the car driving him home, tried to focus on the sounds of the pavement moving beneath the tires to drown out the intrusive memories.
"
 His friend was so clearly drowning. 
John exited the car outside his flat, heading in to sort his affairs before he left for a few days. He gathered Rosie's things, feeling a little like he was going to be sick. He still hadn't sorted out his feelings about this whole mess. He remembered looking at Sherlock's arm, the needle tracks, the collapsing veins. He thought it was a trick. A trap for his pity. He didn't properly register it even as Molly berated the man, pleading with him that he was going to die. 
It wasn't until he saw his friend crashing in the back of the car, hurrying off to get a hit in the hospital that he started to actually process what a mess the man was. And still he ignored the signs until Sherlock was breaking down in the morgue. And the red wave of anger got the best of him still.
It wasn't a new sensation, losing control. The retired army doctor had been battling his PTSD for years, a war he won most days, but slip ups did occur. His healing knuckles ached now with the memory of throwing them at the detective's face. His knee unconsciously tensed with the thought of breaking Sherlock's ribs. Watson took a breath, suddenly aware that he hadn't done so for a few moments as he relived the memory in painful detail. He noted with a degree of annoyance that his hand had begun it's tremor.
John sank into his chair, rubbing his hands over his face and trying to rouse himself from this destructive thought chain. He shakily poured himself a too-full glass of whiskey and sipped at it quickly, letting it be a familiar crutch to distract him from his mind. Since Mary he knew he relied on this crutch too often, but sometimes he couldn't cope otherwise.
He had to use every tool available to him to try and stay afloat. He could not allow himself too far down any path that might lead him away from his life. Away from Rosie. Anything he could use to keep himself sane.
John set the now empty glass down, taking a few deep breaths as the alcohol finally took the edge off. He thought of the video he had watched two days ago. His wife. 
 He didn't think she meant drugs. She meant battle, but Sherlock's greatest hell was always of his own making.
He stood. Tomorrow would be better. He'd step up and he'd be there for Sherlock. Tonight he had to pick up his daughter from his neighbor and spend one last night with her this week.
Quarter to 6 the next evening and John was climbing the familiar stairs in 221B. He stopped outside the flat, nodding to Lestrade as he slipped onto the landing to brief the doctor. "How is he?" John asked, careful to keep his voice quiet.
"He's okay. Anxious I think. He thinks he hides it well, but the pacing gives it away." the Detective Inspector gave a weak smile. "He's an ass as always."
John nodded. "Noted. Thanks Greg."
"You sure you'll be okay taking the next few days in full?"
"Yeah." He assured, giving Lestrade a pat on the shoulder. "Go get some rest. I've got him."
The doctor found Sherlock pacing around the kitchen, pawing through the mess Mycroft's spooks left behind. The doctor finally forced himself to give the detective a proper look, making a mental benchmark he could compare future symptoms to. First off he hadn't truly taken into account just how thin Sherlock had become. He winced internally as he noted once again the new facial injuries, and hemorrhaging in his eye from their encounter in the morgue. Other than that, Sherlock was obviously agitated, and more than that John could see the unmistakable shaking that had started to settle into his form.
"Did you take your medication?" John asked, leaning carefully against the door frame.
"Yesterday was my last dose. But I figured you knew that since apparently you've relieved all the other help and intend to entomb yourself in here with me for the next week."
"I meant for your kidneys." He said firmly, frowning.
Sherlock scrunched his eyes together. "Right. Of course." He turned to the kitchen sink and actually grabbed the medication bottle, listening to the rattle before opening it and taking the dose he was supposed to. "Thank you mummy."
He was not going to be deterred by this act. "Have you eaten anything?"
"Yes, the babysitter was very kind in making me a sandwich before my nap." Sherlock spat. He met eyes with John and he froze. Sherlock's tense shoulders fell and he took a shaky breath. "Sorry John. I didn't mean to snap at you."
Watson moved past him and began to fill the kettle without a reply. He'd make some tea and try to convince Sherlock to eat a few biscuits with it. The man likely wouldn't be able to keep anything down for the next few days, and he needed all the nutrition he could get while there was time.
Sherlock shuffled into the living room and Watson listened to the creak of his footsteps as he resumed pacing. Once tea was finished, John brought it in and took his usual seat in his own chair. The detective flopped down in the chair opposite him, ignoring his cup for now, looking pensive.
"Sherlock…" John started softly. He cleared his throat. "Mycroft swept this place, but we both know he wouldn't have found them if you wanted them hidden." He frowned. "Are there any drugs I should be aware of? That perhaps should be moved?"
"I had Wiggins take them out."
"
of them?"
Sherlock was silent for too long, and Watson was relieved when he seemed to give in with a sigh and stand. Watson followed him to the bathroom where he removed a seemingly innocuous tile near the ground and pulled out a small leather satchel. He tossed it at the doctor.
Watson opened it, inspecting the contents before moving to destroy the powders within. "Jesus Sherlock. This alone is enough to put you in jail for decades."
Sherlock Holmes did not respond, He simply moved back to his chair and attempted to sip at his tea in a last ditch effort to appease John before he completely lost his resolve.
The doctor sighed. It was going to be a long week.
