It was a tranquil Saturday evening, one reserved for movie nights in the Holmes-Watson household. It had been John's turn to choose the film, and he selected some family drama, as he always did. As he and Sherlock sat down for a quiet night in, John made an off-hand comment, spurred on by the movies child-orientated antics. "Wouldn't it be fun to be parents?" he laughed "Maybe we should sign up to foster,"
"Are you serious?" asked Sherlock, surprised at the turn of the conversation.
"Not really. I mean, it would be interesting, though," responded John, pausing the film and standing up. "Do you want some tea?" he said as he wandered into the kitchen, but Sherlock didn't hear him. His thoughts were too preoccupied with the notion of him and John as parents. It was ridiculous, but in a way, the image felt right. As if it was the correct choice for them to make.
John came back, handing Sherlock the cup of hot tea that he didn't ask for, but realized he wanted as John handed it to him. It was a sweet gesture, Sherlock thought, as he watched John sip his own mug of tea and watch the film intently. He did his best to focus on the films inane plot and ridiculous characters but he found himself distracted.
Would he and John be good parents if they did foster? He considered the question. John would slip right into the role. He was a very fatherly person. As for himself, Sherlock wasn't so sure. His unusual tendencies and blunt demeanor meant that his few interactions with small children had been negative ones. What were the requirements for foster parents? He searched his mind palace for any information on the subject but found nothing.
Sherlock looked back at the television to find the credits rolling. The movie was over already. John gave a little yawn, standing up. "Are you coming to bed, Sherlock?"
"I will in a bit," said Sherlock. Sherlock staying up well past a decent hour wasn't unusual behavior, so John shrugged it off, going to bed and falling asleep almost immediately. Sherlock, on the other hand, was wide awake, and his mind was racing with questions.
He would just do a little research, he decided, cracking open his laptop. Just for ten minutes or so. No more. Then he would go to bed.
John's ringing alarm clock jolted him awake. Instinctively, he looked to see if Sherlock was in bed. He wasn't. While it was becoming less common, Sherlock did sometimes forget to sleep if he got too wrapped up in something, just as he sometimes forgot to eat or shower in the middle of a case.
There was one time where Sherlock became so invested and perplexed by a case that he didn't sleep for five days, nor did he shower, and while John couldn't prove it, he was certain he went without food as well. His rut had only ended when John grabbed him under the arms and dragged him into the bathroom, forcing him to take a shower.
John stood up, making the bed and getting dressed with a military-like precision, a habit cemented in his mind by his many years in the army. He opened up the curtains, letting the bright morning sun into their bedroom. It was a lovely day, perfect for pancakes for breakfast and making Sherlock accompany him for a walk in the park. As much as Sherlock feigned protest, John knew he enjoyed it.
As he went to the kitchen, John paused in shock. The apartment was in a state of wild disarray, with papers strewn about and drawers thrown open. The door stood wide open. Had they been robbed? Where was Sherlock? Shit. John reached for the landline, about to call the police, when Sherlock burst through the door, holding a heavy-looking cardboard box.
"Where the hell were you, Sherlock?" John demanded, shaking with rage. "You have to tell me when you plan to go somewhere,"
Sherlock gave him a determined look, setting the box down on the table. "I was thinking about what you said, and I decided to do some research on the internet, and then I went to the library – did you know that the library is open twenty-four hours a day? – and I borrowed some books on the subject. I thought we could look through them together,"
John was still confused. "What on earth are you talking about?" he demanded.
"Being foster parents. And parenting in general. Do keep up, John," said Sherlock, snarkily, lifting the lid off the box. There were a dozen or so books inside, with titles like "Parenting 101" and "So You're A Father: Now What?" that John found faintly patronizing.
"Sounds like a fun way to spend a Sunday," said John sarcastically, but Sherlock wasn't listening, already skimming the first chapter of a book and scribbling down notes. "I'm going to make pancakes for breakfast," John announced and Sherlock nodded distantly.
Thirty minutes later, he plated up the food and set it before Sherlock, who was still nose-deep in a book, but grabbed a fork and ate without looking. John had a mouthful. It was good but certainly not his best work. Once they had finished eating, John glanced at the ticking clock on the wall. It was about midday. Time for their walk he decided, telling Sherlock to fetch his shoes so they could leave.
"So how do we start?" John asked as he threw on his coat. Sherlock looked at him confused, as he pulled on his gloves and scarf. "The process of becoming foster parents," he added.
"You're on board with this?" Sherlock asked.
"I think I am. I mean it'll be difficult but I think it would be a rewarding experience. You know, giving them a place to call home I guess," John said. The two left for their walk as Sherlock spouted all the information he had gathered on the foster care system, which was quite a lot. John listened to him with a contented smile. He knew that they had made the right decision.
