Mycroft's surveillance on his brother was elaborate, but Sherlock still somehow managed to evade his and his staff's watching eye sometimes. Mycroft was sure he could only do this with the help of his "homeless network", which Mycroft knew wasn't so much a helpful connection to Sherlock but rather his own, current network. If Sherlock had just asked Mycroft (and would accept his help at that) Sherlock would not have to be homeless, but Sherlock was too proud and Mycroft too worried that he would disappear forever, so he would not push him. Instead, he kept tabs on all his activities – as much as he could – and it instilled him with a sense of security. Even though Sherlock was living on the streets, Mycroft could not see indications of his brother continuing his substance abuse on the few occasions they had seen each other. Furthermore, just because Sherlock thought the homeless network worked for him, that didn't mean they wouldn't take a bribe from Mycroft once in a while. That gave Mycroft fairly reliable information about what Sherlock was doing and where he was staying, even when Sherlock had been able to shake off Mycroft's surveillance for a bit.
This meant Mycroft heard fairly quickly about Sherlock's new job – if it could be called that, he didn't get paid after all – and it took no time to find out who his associate at the Yard was. Of course, Mycroft had his own people in the Yard but he preferred to find out information about one Gregory Lestrade on his own as this man was now entangled with his brother's machinations and he did not trust anyone when it came to his brother. His initial assessment of Gregory Lestrade was that he sure was boring. Born and raised in London, Lestrade had spent his entire life in the city. He had studied Politics, Philosophy and Economics at University and then decided to join the police. Slowly but surely, he had worked his way to detective inspector and was now in charge of one of the homicide divisions within the Yard. Mycroft was satisfied at finding that Gregory Lestrade was boring – it meant that at least he wouldn't get his brother into more trouble. At the same time, he thought that if Lestrade could put up with Sherlock, maybe he wasn't so boring after all (or stupider than Mycroft anticipated). Either way, it became clear to Mycroft that he certainly needed to meet this new acquaintance Sherlock had attained and so he planned a meeting.
Gregory Lestrade was going about business as usual, even though he was really walking on eggshells. He was swamped at work and constantly nagged by his wife for it. Lately Greg had started to think that maybe his wife was cheating on him and it made him all the more agitated. Therefore, while he could recognise Sherlock's extraordinary gift of reading people and situations, it was hard to be around him. He had only allowed him to consult on cold cases for now. When he had first met Sherlock, he had been near a crime scene telling his deduction to Donovan. Naturally, Donovan didn't want to listen because she always thought she was so much cleverer than everyone else. When Greg came to see what was going on as Sherlock started shouting at her, he inevitably also heard Sherlock's deductions and after everything forensics had already told him about the crime scene, it seemed this strange young man was right. Greg thought there could only be two ways Sherlock could know the information that he did – either because he had committed the crime himself, or because of his "deductions". Once Greg had ruled out Sherlock as the criminal (which greatly annoyed Sherlock because it took Greg two days to do – not that the case Sherlock had encountered him at was his only case that week) – he supposed Sherlock's deductions were real. After all, he knew an awful lot of things about Greg himself, as well as most people on the squad, apparently by merely looking at them. Greg was secretly fascinated with what Sherlock could do but could tell after five minutes of meeting him that it was not a good idea to stroke his ego. That's why he only allowed him to consult on cold cases first – if Sherlock's "deductions" were just a trick he had invented to insert himself into the police, Greg would find out. If Sherlock could actually deduce as much as he claimed, however, Greg could close a few cold cases and might gain a valuable asset in the meantime. Of course, Lestrade did his own background check on Sherlock but what he found wasn't very informative. There certainly wasn't much personal information, and he wasn't stupid enough (even though Sherlock frequently suggested otherwise) to ask him any personal questions. Greg finally made peace with it, thinking that it really didn't matter what Sherlock's history was as long as he was helpful to the Yard and didn't commit any crimes. Even if he was a right prick sometimes.
Something that no one knew about Gregory Lestrade was that he liked to go to the Canada Water Library and read philosophy books. Sure, people knew about what he had studied at university, but no one thought he'd be the type of person to read philosophy for fun. One night after a particularly stressful case and a nasty argument with his wife (she had finally told him she was cheating a few days earlier) Greg decided to go to the library. The Canada Water Library was Greg's favourite in many ways. Firstly, it was in Southwark, away from both his work and his home. Secondly, it was open twenty-four hours and considering the late hours Greg always worked that came in handy. Thirdly, it had a vast variety of philosophy books which was what Greg primarily read when he was there. He did enjoy fiction as well but that was for holidays and quiet evenings at home. Coming to the library to read philosophy was something else entirely. It made Greg think about more than just the case he was working on or his wife and kids, it made him think about something bigger than himself. This had always fascinated Greg and he was happy he could continue to educate himself on something he so enjoyed, even though not as frequently as he wanted to.
He entered the library at 2am and as usual, there was barely anyone else there. Greg had been to it so many times that he had long ago established his favourite place to sit – a comfy armchair in a quiet corner of the philosophy section, blocked off by rows upon rows of books. He had never encountered anyone else in that corner of the library and that was a big reason why it had become his favourite. On his way there he picked up the book he was reading – There's Something About Mary – and excitedly turned the corner only to find someone was sat in his armchair. Greg came to a halt instantly at the sight of this man sitting in his armchair. The man was wearing a three-piece suit that Greg suspected must have cost a small fortune, an umbrella leaning against the arm of the chair and a paper cup of coffee sitting on the table. In his hands he held a book on some political matter in south west Asia, but Greg didn't really focus on that. Instead, he looked at the man's face, who had put down the book as soon as Greg had approached him. He stared back at him blankly and his eyes were piercing. It made Greg feel uncomfortable, but he wouldn't let this stranger stare him down.
"Gregory Lestrade." the stranger said, and Greg's eyebrows twitched at hearing his name from a man he had never seen before. The man got up and stretched out his hand for Greg to shake.
"A pleasure to meet you." he said, and Greg shook his hand. That piercing look was very familiar, and something about this stranger's face felt familiar too. Greg felt like it was on the tip of his tongue.
"How do you know my name?" Greg asked, not wanting to ask who this stranger was when he knew he could figure it out if he just thought hard enough.
"I know much more than that. You come here all the time. You have been reading this book for while and are almost finished. Tonight, you are here because you have had a long day at work interrogating suspects that were dead ends. You took the Jubilee line to get here, so presumably you have come straight from home. Your wife riled you up – I suspect she has been cheating on you and is somehow pretending it is your fault. You are very tired but are trying to drink less coffee outside of work and have just quit smoking, even though it helps you relax."
By the time he was finished with his deductions Greg still didn't know the name of this man, but he knew who he reminded him of, and he was certain that he was one of Sherlock's family members.
"So, how are you related to Sherlock?"
Mycroft smiled a crooked smile that didn't look genuine at all.
"Well done for figuring that out."
Greg felt like a five-year-old being praised for saying a complicated word for the first time. It didn't feel like a compliment.
"I am Sherlock's older brother, Mycroft Holmes."
"Well then, Mr. Holmes, to what do I owe the pleasure?" Greg asked. He didn't really want to deal with this right now – after all he had just come here to read a bloody book – but something about Mycroft Holmes was intriguing. He was clearly just as clever as his brother and what he was wearing and what he had been reading suggested that he occupied a powerful position – probably in politics. He seemed about ten years older than Sherlock, suggesting that he was about the same age as Greg.
"I have come to know that you and Sherlock have struck an agreement, of sorts."
"I don't know how that would be any of your business."
Mycroft smiled a tight-lipped smile. Greg didn't like it.
"Loyal to him already. I wonder how that happened. My brother isn't exactly charming."
"You are bloody right about that but that sure as hell doesn't mean I'm gonna talk about him with his brother who approached me in a library in the middle of the night instead of giving me a call, when he clearly has information about me."
"How do you come to that conclusion?"
"You are a Holmes, and I suspect a powerful person in politics at that. Plus, no one knows I come here."
Another smile crossed Mycroft's and seemed a little bit more genuine than the past ones he had given Greg.
"I occupy a minor position in the government. However, I am not here to talk about myself or you, I am here to talk about Sherlock. Will you tell me about your agreement?"
"You are a Holmes, I'm sure you already know."
"Yes, indeed. But I would like to hear it from you."
Greg sighed. If Mycroft was anything like Sherlock asking why would just end in an annoyed tirade and he'd end up telling him what he wanted to hear anyway.
"Sherlock helped me out at a case a few weeks back. He was having a row with one of my sergeants spouting about his deductions and I confirmed they were true. Thought he might be useful to the Yard in the future so I agreed that he can work on cold cases I give him."
"You are still not sure that his deductions are real."
"No, I know they are. I just haven't figured out yet how I can let him consult on cases without my superior's thinking I've gone bonkers."
Mycroft smiled again and this time it seemed genuine. It reached his eyes. Greg got a weird sense of accomplishment from that smile. He didn't think a lot of people could make Mycroft smile, and he rather enjoyed the activity for some reason.
"That I understand. My brother is not particularly good with… humans."
"Maybe that runs in the family."
Mycroft gave Greg a sharp look and it was Greg's turn to smile. Mycroft Holmes was very easy to tease.
"Please do not put me in a pot with my brother. I can be very charming when I want."
"Oh, I don't doubt it."
Their conversation had taken a strange turn, but Greg didn't really mind. Something about this man was so intriguing and he could happily talk to him a little longer.
"I can aid you with getting your superiors to allow Sherlock to consult on active cases."
"With a minor position in the government I don't think that'll work." Greg said, only to rile up Mycroft once more. It was very clear that this man was powerful and certainly not just a minor role. Mycroft seemed to know Greg was making fun of him because he gave him a pointed look before speaking again.
"I just wanted to inform you that my brother can be very difficult."
"Yeah I kinda gathered that already."
"He has not had the best childhood and I do not know if you are aware, but he used to have a rather serious drug habit."
"I wasn't, actually." Greg replied, surprised. Sherlock didn't strike him as someone who would take drugs, especially because he always bragged about how brilliant he was, but no one could be brilliant on drugs. Then again, just as much as Sherlock talked about his brilliance, he also talked about his constant boredom. They were really the only two things he ever spoke about, apart from when he was prattling off his deductions. Experimenting with drugs might have been a way to escape the boredom. Sherlock sustaining a drug habit while consulting the police was certainly a problem because drugs were still illegal in this country and in Greg's experience some drug addicts were unpredictable.
"He is not currently taking any drugs; it seems that your cold cases are keeping his mind rather busy."
"Well, I am glad to hear that. But why are you telling me all this?"
"Well, you see, Sherlock does not like to accept any help and certainly not from me. I could never do anything about his drug habit, but now that he is working with you it seems he has found a new fix – cases. I want to ensure that Sherlock can continue working with you because it seems to do him good."
"Never thought I would meet a Holmes that cared about another person."
Mystrade ignored Greg's statement.
"I merely wanted to inform you that I will make sure your superior's will allow for you to consult Sherlock. And I must confess I wanted to meet you myself."
"And why is that?"
"Because no one Sherlock has ever met has just kept him around, despite his unbelievable arrogance."
"Well, I want something from him. He is helping me solve cases."
"Yes, that is true indeed. But no one I know of has kept Sherlock around for long – no matter how useful he was to them. It is quite fascinating."
Greg felt flattered at being called fascinating by Mycroft because the man was clearly fascinating himself. He seemed to care a great deal about Sherlock, even though Greg suspected that he would never show it to Sherlock himself.
"Well, he can be a right arse but that doesn't mean he isn't a useful asset. Plus, I like him for some reason."
"That is rather strange, but I cannot say I am not glad that Sherlock has found someone that is willing to work with him."
Greg didn't really know what to say to that and so he stayed quiet. They were just looking at each other now and it briefly crossed Greg's mind that he quite liked looking at Mycroft. He would've liked it even more, though, if Mycroft could smile another of his genuine smiles again.
"That is a good choice of literature." Mycroft said and pointed at the book Greg was still holding. Greg was not surprised at learning that Mycroft was interested in philosophy – he seemed like a sophisticated man that liked to think a lot.
"Uhm, thanks. I studied philosophy at university, you see, and I enjoy reading it when I want to take my mind off things, think of something bigger than whatever is going on in my life. But I'm sure you already know that."
Mycroft gave him another genuine smile.
"Yes, you are quite right." was all he responded before picking up his coffee and umbrella, carrying his book under his arm. Only now Greg realised it wasn't a book from the library, so Mycroft had been prepared to wait until Greg showed up.
"How many nights have you sat here waiting for me?"
"Too many I care to admit." Mycroft replied and Greg was surprised that he was being sincere. At the same time, he felt a sense of achievement, even though he had not achieved anything consciously. But the fact that Mycroft Holmes had not known the exact time Greg came to this library – even though he had somehow figured out that he came here somewhat regularly – made his mood a lot better.
"Maybe Holmes' aren't all knowing after all."
Mycroft smirked and shook Greg's hand.
"If I were you, I would not test that theory, Detective Inspector."
And with that, he left.
Mycroft was sat in the back of his car, on his way home, thinking about his encounter with Detective Inspector Gregory Lestrade. He didn't know what he had expected, and he couldn't say he had been surprised, but at the same time Gregory had not been exactly what he had expected. He was a quick thinker, nowhere near as quick as himself or Sherlock of course, but that wasn't a fair standard. He had a certain sense of humour that Mycroft wouldn't appreciate in anyone else, but he had to admit he had enjoyed some of the DI's teasing. And lastly, he had to admit Lestrade was quite an attractive man. Mycroft of course never got emotionally attached, but he had had relations with his fair share of goldfish in his life and therefore could appreciate a good-looking man when he saw one. And he had certainly seen one tonight. Yes, Gregory Lestrade certainly was a goldfish, but maybe he was interesting beyond the fact that he could put up with Sherlock.
