}
Molly closes her laptop and sighs, looking around her tiny, crummy flat. It had begun to rain, and she can hear the light drip drip noise of the small ceiling leak in her kitchen. Going into the other room, she grabs the big blue bucket from the small closet and places it under the dripping, pursing her lips in annoyance. She leans against the counter and looks around, hoping that some day soon she will be able to run from this place. It's nearly condemnable. She grabs a frozen pizza from her small freezer and pops it in the oven. While it's cooking, she flips through the channels on her telly, trying to find something, anything that would pique her interest. Within a few moments she finds a show about real life mysteries and stops, her eyebrow raising a bit curiously. Content with that choice, she returns to the kitchen just in time to take out her pizza. As it cools, she takes the opportunity to throw her soft pjs and her glasses on, then returns, grabbing her food, and settling down on her sofa for a night of thrilling TV marathons.
Sherlock shuts his laptop and ruffles his dark, very curly hair in frustration. He looks around at his small studio and sighs, his face falling a bit. He picks up his mobile and checks to see if he has notifications, but as usually everything is empty. No emails, no texts, no missed calls. Setting his jaw in annoyance, he puts it down again and gets up to pace a bit, picking up the skull that is sitting on his small end table.
"Ah, hello Vic. Have I been killing you with my intellectual rants lately? I do tend to ramble about things people see as unthinkable or unimaginable, but they're really quite simple if people would just observe and not take every last situation at face value."
He looks at the skull and scoffs. "Who am I kidding? You're already dead. You're an inanimate object. I could ramble all day and you wouldn't give two shits what I have to say, eh? Yeah, that's what I thought...nobody else does either." He places it back down and balls his fists out of habit, the urges coming back to him. They have been getting stronger for weeks now and he has done nearly everything he can think of not to pick up the needle, but sometimes he /needs/ it. Making large strides towards his bedroom, he opens his sock drawer and takes out a pack of cigarettes. He has two left and swears to himself, grabbing one. Stepping outside, he only gets a few moments to take in a few large drags before the rain starts to come down hard enough to put it out.
"No!" he growls and drops it in the filthy, unused bird fountain. He sinks to the ground, not caring that his clothes are being soaked through from the rain as he rubs his face in distress. After a while, Sherlock pulls himself up and begins walking, already soaked. Before he even processes where he's going, in front of him appears a very old, dilapidated, graffitied building. Swallowing the lump in his throat, he makes his way inside and shakes his hair out as best he can. He sees rows of sleeping bags and sleeping people. Sherlock knows in his heart that he should not be here, but his head screams for some.
"Wiggins! Wiggins, where the hell are you, you ingrate!?"
Shuffling is heard near the staircase and a very dirty ginger haired young man pops into view. "Eyy, I'm not an ingrate, you are! Whatcha want, 'olmes? I was startin' to think you'd never be back 'ere."
"I need some. Get me some. Now."
"Eyy mate, you know I can't supply withou' payment!"
Sherlock growls and rips his wallet out of his soaked sweatpants, handing him a few soggy bills. "Now get it, NOW."
Wiggins rushes up the stairs and returns moments later, handing Sherlock a big baggy of needles, filled with heroin. He puts them in his sweatshirt pocket and shoves his wallet back into his pants. "Thanks...", he mutters, slightly disappointed in himself.
"Ya welcome, mate. See ya next time."
"There won't be a next time, Wiggins."
"Aye, that's what ya always say."
Sherlock clenches his jaw and walks out into the rain again, quickening his pace as he walks back towards his flat. When he gets there, he's shivering but ignores it, rushing to his small kitchen and immediately testing the needles. He may be a drug /user/, but he is not a dirty one, he always makes sure that he's safe first; rather, that the needles are safe /for/ him. Every time. He supposes that his superior mind allows him to be better than other users in that way. They seem fine, but coming from Wiggins, it always makes him slightly uneasy. To be extra safe, he empties the needles into a steel bowl and melts them with his torch so he can easily toss later, without risk. Taking out the new needles that he got online, Sherlock sterilizes them with alcohol wipes and dries them, then fills them with the heroin in the steel bowl.
He runs his fingers through his damp curls and sheds his soaking sweatshirt, tossing it into his bedroom. He paces around for a while, glancing at the needles on the counter, over and over. In the back of his mind, and in his heart, he knows it's wrong, that he really shouldn't. But he can't take the silence anymore. He needs the stimulation, the high.
Picking them up, he bring them with him to the sofa as he lays down on it. He brings the first needle to his forearm, hovering hesitantly. He was lucky that the last time, the track marks didn't scar him, and wonders what would happen if he were to fall back into old habits. It's more likely than not if he goes through with this, but he /needs/ the invigoration that it can give him. With the loneliness all around him settling into his bones, he slips the needle into his forearm, and plunges the heroin into his veins. Sherlock sighs wonderfully and his eyes slip closed as he let's the euphoria take over.
