The pleasant lilting sounds of the violin strings pleased Sherlock in more ways than many thought.
Music was it's own form of language.
.
Sherlock didn't understand that aspect of humanity. Why were people so quick to embrace a function of chemicals in the brain that could control the reaction of the body? It seemed more a danger than anything. The transport did enough of in its own accord to hinder him, he didn't want to give it any more power over his intellect.
But therein was another problem. His intellect. He prized it above all else. But even with his vast knowledge and observational skills, he had something lacking.
thy.
Sherlock ran a sour note harshly across his strings.
How many times had he overlooked the obvious because it pertained to those 
The only things that ever escaped him. He never understood why people did what they did.
Oh he was good enough to point out the reasons that caused the end result. Cause and effect were child's play. He could deduce anything. But he could not 
anything.
His beloved violin had been a gift in his childhood. An outlet mummy had given him when he struggled to understand why his peers resented him and his brain.
She had told him that everything you feel can be felt better through music. That if he could not find the words, or the expression for what he felt, 
them.
And that had been the beginning of his fascination with music. He couldn't understand these emotions, but he could feel them. He could feel the vibrations of the wood under his chin. He could feel the inner stirring as the bow swooped across the strings.
He needed to 
to understand.
He started his experiment with Mycroft. And quickly found that the best notes to accompany his infernal brother to be harsh, loud, and chaotic. And he understood. He felt 
He felt 
It had worked! He had grasped an emotion. He finitely had understood something that other humans deemed important. He 
.
And so he continued. Long hours of the day and into the early morning light. Many nights he dedicated to his study on emotions. Observing in the day and carrying it into his music at night.
He 
understand.
When The Woman came around, he played. He played sweet, somber notes. He played through the sadness, and felt 
He felt her 
He understood.
When Moriarty came, he played. He played classical notes, clever, smooth. And he felt 
. He felt his 
. He understood.
When John and Mary were to be married, he played. He played those playful notes, each blending into the next, climbing and entertaining. And he felt 
 He felt 
And he understood.
After the ordeal with his rediscovered sister, he had played with her. He played confident notes, forceful, sure. And he felt 
 He felt 
A long study he had made into this experiment of his. And he had to reluctantly admit that his mother had been correct.
Music says it better.
Now his bow stayed on the strings. He played through the emotions he had discovered.
 
 
But he was still lacking.
The bow drooped a moment, his arm going slack against the violin.
It was that more vicious motivator. He knew it in theory. And he had a feeling he had experienced that emotion of his own accord.
The violin lowered from his chin to fall by his side in his loose grasp.
He stared into the fire in the hearth, letting it entertain him and he dove into memory.
 The pool. The rooftop. The fire.
And 
Moved on. He's never going to be the same as he was before.
Everything had changed. John had changed.
Things would never be as they were.
Sherlock raised the instrument in front of him for examination.
He wanted to understand this. This, the most important feeling. But how does one play 
? How does one play 
s?
Putting the violin gently away in its case, ready for the travel to Sherrinford tomorrow, Sherlock took an extra moment to run his fingers along that precious wood.
His experiment was not over.
He would understand.
Another day.
