A/N: Hello! Hello! Hello! Sherlock and Leena are back! Woo! I know it took much longer than it should have to get this story up. I usually aim to get one finished within a few weeks of that season of the show airing, but life got in the way :/ Things have stayed pretty steady recently though and I'm very happy to catch Sherlock and Leena up for Series 4 :)
For new readers, this is an OC/Sherlock story, Holmes Again, a little play on Home Again, and it is the fourth story in my series, The Jackie Holmes Chronicles (I would recommend Holmes, Sweet Holmes and Holmes is Where the Heart is and Welcome Holmes be read first). My OC, Jacqueline 'Leena' Jerrard, called Jackie by everyone who isn't Sherlock, is a very old, very close friend of Sherlock Holmes and is now his wife :) She has her own nicknames for him, Sherwood, when around others, and Locksley, in private, based on her favorite story as a child, Robin Hood.
A short description, Leena is a woman of average height, with light blonde hair just down to her chest that hangs straight with a little wave to it, with gray eyes. She's usually rather pale and tends to wear comfortable and simple clothes. To help the visualization more, I picture her to look something like the actress Brianna Brown. This story is a very 
 crossover with Criminal Minds in the sense that Leena was once a member of the BAU in America for about four years so slight references might be made to that show ;)
I am going to try to keep as true and in character to Sherlock as I can, though I give one caveat, you are a different person around your friends than around your family or co-workers or others. Leena is closer to him than anyone, they started a relationship in my first story, got engaged in the second, married in the third, so this series follows a very long and very established relationship/friendship between Sherlock and Leena long before the show begins that we only learn more of as time goes on.
This particular story will include the Christmas Special for Sherlock, the Abominable Bride, in 3 chapters. Most other chapters based on normal episodes will be only 2 chapters each ;) I will be aiming to update the story 2x a week so far, usually it seems to fall on Tuesdays and Fridays ;)
Because of how the Christmas Special was structured, there will be a portion of this episode in 
, this will be anything happening in the real world/modern time, since a large portion of the episode took place in the 'past' and that will be the sequence I'm following more. Just to clear up something when the story eventually swaps between the past and present, in the past Sherlock is Holmes, John is Watson, and Leena is Jacqueline ;) In the present, they will follow the names usually used in the rest of the series, Sherlock, John, and Leena ;)
There will also be some French mixed into this chapter, with translations in the ending A/N ;)
~8~ is a scene break
'...' is a form of communication between Sherlock and Leena where he deduces her expressions and she profiles his, silently communicating without speaking.
Disclaimer: I do not own Sherlock, not Sherlock Holmes or the BBC's show...or we might have gotten more of a certain missing Holmes ;)
Enjoy!
~8~
The Abominable Bride: One Old Mystery
In the early 1880s, one John Watson walked alongside an old school friend, Mr. Stamford, through the halls of an underground mortuary, on the way to find a man who was also looking for someone to split rent on a flat in London. He had just come from the Second Afgan War, injured in battle, needing a cane to walk, and trying to piece his life together again, getting tired of living out of a hotel and trying to find a real place to live and heal.
…an underground mortuary should have been his first clue that said potential-flat-sharer was going to be something else.
Coming upon the man violently and viciously flogging a corpse with a walking stick was another sign.
"Good Lord!" Watson exclaimed at the brutal sight.
Stamford sighed, "It's an experiment, apparently. Beating corpses to establish how long after death bruising is still possible."
Watson could only watch on, growing increasingly uncomfortable, before he turned and began to limp after Stamford when he walked on, "Is there a medical point to that?"
"Not sure."
"Neither am I. So, where's this friend of yours, then?"
Stamford came to stop at the door to the room the man was within, causing Watson to turn and stare at him, realizing that the mad man within 
 the friend he had spoken of. But, well, if he was to find any sort of reasonable living in the city, beggars could not be choosers. So he, with some reluctance, followed Stamford into the room.
"Excuse me!" Stamford called out as they approached, but the man just kept on beating the corpse.
"I do hope we're not interrupting!" Watson tried his own hand at getting the man's attention, but he seemed far too inclined to continue the thrashing.
"Bonjour!" a voice said from behind them, causing both men to jump in startlement, having not seen the woman in the lovely deep purple gown sitting on a stool behind them, near the door, a small desk set up with a book open and an ink pen in hand, "Do you need zome 'elp getting hes attencion?" she stood, moving over to them, her French accent quite thick.
Watson gaped for all of a moment before the manners his mother raised him with came back to him. The woman was lovely, with blonde hair that had a faint hint of brown to it, neatly pinned back into a twist, with grey eyes that were quite mischievous. She was rather pale, though it could be the dim lighting and the deep color of her high collared gown that made it appear that way.
"Hello ma'am," he greeted, taking her offered hand to kiss the back of it, "If you could be so kind…"
"Jacqueline," she offered, "Please."
"John," Watson smiled.
"You must forgeeve Sherwood," she looked at the man, who had now snapped the walking stick in half over his knee and was beating the corpse with both halves, far more fondly than Watson would have thought given the circumstances, "He eez always very focused," she offered an apologetic smile, before turning to call out, "Oh Sherwood, attencion, s'il vous plait!"
The man gave the corpse one last whack, before he took a deep breath and turned, straightening his shirt as he did so, revealing an equally pale man, with striking blue eyes, and black hair neatly comped and slicked, wearing a black vest over his white shirt, a deep purple tie peeking out from below his neck.
"Yes?" he called out, his gaze immediately turned to Jacqueline, though it flickered to Watson when she gave a nod to the man beside her. He eyed Watson up and down, "You've been in Afghanistan, I perceive," and then turned to grab his waistcoat, peering at the pocket watch he kept there.
"Doctor Watson," Stamford began, "Mr. Sherlock Holmes, he…"
Before he could finish, Holmes had grabbed half of the stick and tossed it to Watson without even looking, the man quickly catching it.
"Excellent reflexes!" Holmes smiled at the man, putting the watch away, "You'll do."
Jacqueline rolled her eyes at him, shaking her head fondly, "Tu t'inquietes trop," she murmured, knowing he was only testing Watson because of the enemies HE made. If he was going to allow another into the home he had in mind for them, he wanted to make sure he would be able to protect HER if any of his enemies came calling while he was out.
"Jamais," he winked back at her.
"Je suis desole," Jacqueline turned to Watson, "Sherwood eez very protective. 'e will not let any near me who are not…" she struggled to find the word, "How you say…fighter."
"I'm sorry?" Watson shook his head, a little lost.
"I have my eye on a suite of rooms near Regent's Park," Holmes just continued speaking as though Watson hadn't asked, "Between us we could afford them."
"Rooms? Who said anything about rooms?"
"I did," Holmes answered this one at least, "I mentioned to Stamford this morning that Leena and I were in need of a fellow lodger. Now he appears after lunch in the company of a man of military aspect with a tan and recent injury, both suggestive of the campaign in Afghanistan, and an enforced departure from it. The conclusion seemed inescapable," his gaze flickered over to Jacqueline who was smiling at him with that fond look she only gave him when she was impressed with his observational abilities, "We'll finalize the details tomorrow evening."
"Sorry, sorry, who's Leena?" Watson frowned.
"Bonjour," Jacqueline gave him a small wave and a giggle, "Je suis Jacqueline Holmes."
"My wife," Holmes added, moving to put his waistcoat on as he approached, "We were looking for a third to rent out our spare bedroom too," he added, "Now if you'll excuse us, I have a hanging in Wandsworth and I'd hate them to start without me."
"A hanging?" Watson blinked as the two moved to a coat rack, Holmes picking up a long woman's coat to help Jacqueline into it.
"I take a professional interest. I also play the violin and smoke a pipe…"
"Sherwood," Jacqueline gave him a look.
"And attempt to 
 smoke a pipe," Holmes corrected without fumble, "I presume that's not a problem?"
"Er, no, well…" Watson stammered.
"And you're clearly acclimatized to never getting to the end of a sentence," Holmes remarked, taking a deerstalker hat that Jacqueline offered him, "Know any French?" he asked.
"Um, some?"
"We'll get along splendidly then," Holmes nodded, "Tomorrow evening, seven o'clock, then," he held out an elbow to Jacqueline to take, before he turned to go, pausing only to look over his shoulder and call out, "Oh, and the name is Sherlock Holmes and the address is two hundred and twenty-one B Baker Street."
They could both hear Stamford murmuring, "Yes, he's always been like that, though he's actually gotten better since he got married," on their way out.
Jacqueline merely giggled at the remark, squeezing Holmes's arm as they went, "Je vais mieux aussi, en t'ayant épousé."
~8~
Holmes grinned as he stepped out of the horse-drawn carriage, looking up at the door of 221B Baker Street, which hadn't changed at all in the 4 years he and Jacqueline had lived there, though the last year was the first without Watson renting their spare room. It was just as well, they had been giving thought to another purpose the room could serve, and with his investigative business taking off, due in large part to Watson's stories of their cases that he published in the Strand magazine, they could afford the rent without need of another renter. Not that they couldn't before, but Jacqueline had been adamant that he needed more friends than just her and that she needed someone around to keep him out of trouble when she couldn't join him on his cases.
His wife, bless her, possessed a sharp mind and keen eyes, and was often a large assistance to him in helping to discover the criminals behind the crimes he came across. He valued her opinion and endeavored to bring her with him on as many cases as he could. She had been studying in France for a number of years before they'd met Watson, working under a very well educated man who specialized in the study of the mind. It had taken some doing, given her gender and the lack of education allowed to women in their day and age. But his brother, for once in his life, had proven useful and pulled a number of strings to allow Jacqueline to learn from this man. They had been separated for near 4 years before she returned to London, to him. They corresponded regularly by mail, but it was not enough. Now that she was at his side once more, he did all he could to keep her there.
But there WERE some cases he deemed too dangerous and despicable to allow her to witness. His wife had a remarkable memory too, every word she read or picture she saw she could commit to memory easily. There were some things he would not wish her to see and be forced to recall in clear detail.
This had been one such case, dismemberment and all. And while the thrill of the game had been a distraction to their separation, he was very eager to see his wife once more.
Unfortunately, it was not his wife who opened the door, but his landlady, Mrs. Hudson, and her houseboy, Billy.
"Mr. Holmes," Mrs. Hudson sighed, "I do wish you'd let me know when you're planning to come home."
Holmes smirked, knowing it was her way of welcoming him back safe, for she had something of a soft spot for him, to make him and Watson a filling dinner to celebrate a successful case. Sadly, she failed to realize that he often did not send word for the express reason of surprising his wife upon his return, "I hardly knew myself, Mrs. Hudson. That's the trouble with dismembered country squires, they're notoriously difficult to schedule."
His eyes flickered behind her, peering for Jacqueline, before he turned to pay the cabbie, his pipe clamped between his teeth.
"What's in there?" Billy asked as he hurried over to help Watson remove their bags, looking pointedly at one in his hands.
"Never mind," Watson waved it off.
"Thank you," Holmes nodded to the cabbie, waving him off, before turning to head in after Billy.
"Did you catch a murderer, Mr. Holmes?" Billy called back to him.
"Caught the murderer," Holmes agreed, "Still looking for the legs. Think we'll call it a draw."
"You are losing your touch, I see," Jacqueline's voice echoed down to him as she descended the stairs, wearing her grey gown.
Which wasn't fair at all, Holmes thought, the grey gown always brought out her eyes and made them sparkle and how was he to concentrate on anything else when her eyes sparkled like that? He supposed that was what he got for wearing his purple tie before he and Watson had left.
"You were right," he remarked instead, heading to the stairs and reaching out to take her hands, pressing a kiss to the back of each of them, "It was the cook."
Jacqueline grimaced, "I had hoped not to be in zat regard."
Holmes smiled gently up at her, her accent had softened in the last four years, but it was still quite present and he had taken to speaking more French around her now that it was the two of them to allow the accent to continue. He rather loved her accent.
And, as much as he wanted to continue to hear it, it was getting rather difficult to do with Mrs. Hudson and Watson arguing about why the woman didn't seem to like his stories behind them. Jacqueline, though, pursed her lips to keep from smiling when Mrs. Hudson complained about how Watson had written that all she did was show people the stairs and make breakfast.
The Landlady would deny it, cite how she was their landlady not the housekeeper nor their maid…and yet she did, without fail, serve them breakfast each day.
"Well," Watson defended, "Within the narrative, that is, broadly speaking, your function."
Holmes gave Jacqueline a roll of the eye for how terrible that had sounded, which earned him a giggle from her and a kiss on the cheek. He never treated her like most men did their wives. He gave her far more freedom than the norm and the only restrictions he put on her were not out of a thought that she was incapable due to being a woman, but more a fear for her safety in being his wife whom he loved. She appreciated the trust and equality he offered her.
"My what?!" Mrs. Hudson cried, offended.
"Don't feel singled out, Mrs. Hudson," Holmes stepped up onto the step with Jacqueline, "I'm hardly in the dog one," and gave her a full kiss on the lips in greeting, before taking her hand to move up the stairs to their flat.
"The dog one?!" Watson sounded as indignant as Mrs. Hudson had.
"I'm your landlady, not a plot device!" Mrs. Hudson grumbled.
But Watson was far more concerned with how Holmes had described his story and followed him up the stairs, "Do you mean 'The Hound of the Baskervilles?'"
"And you make the room so drab and dingy," Mrs. Hudson wouldn't let up.
"Oh, blame it on the illustrator. He's out of control. I've had to grow this moustache just so people'll recognize me," he huffed, hurrying up the stairs after the pair.
Holmes, however, stopped in the doorway to the flat even as Jacqueline continued on into the room. It was bright, with the curtains pulled aside to allow what sunlight there was over London in, everything tidy and organized. He noticed many things, small though they were, that had changed since he had had to leave for this case. A new frame decorated 'Yorrick' as he had come to call the painting Jacqueline had gifted him, an optical illusion of a woman at a vanity that appeared as though a skull from another perspective, a reminder to always look at things in new ways. The stag's head he had mounted on the wall was dusted. And there were at least 4 new papers stabbed under the knife on the mantle, clearly they had gotten more mail in while they had been off and his wife had added it to his pile of ongoing cases. He also noticed a few papers on a desk off to the side, with the distinctive knife slit in them that told him his wife had taken a case or two to make notes of her own about.
However, the largest change…was the woman standing before the fireplace, dressed in the black mourning attire from head to toe, her face covered with a black veil.
Instantly he knew who it was.
Jacqueline would not allow a stranger into their home without him present, it was one of the few rules he insisted be followed, for he would take no chances with is wife's safety. It was someone she was familiar with and trusted…
And the perfume could be no one else for Jacqueline did not wear that particular brand, but had gifted it to a very specific woman a short while ago.
He glanced at Watson, who had come to stop just behind him and frown a the mysterious woman, his expression clearly reading that he had no idea who this was and was instantly on the defense, ready to protect his friends should this person attack.
It was unnecessary in this instance, but appreciated.
"Good Lord!" Watson murmured beside him.
Holmes caught sight of Jacqueline's small smile and grinned himself, deciding to see if Watson would be able to work this one out by himself, and so he entered the room, moving over to where Jacqueline had come to sit by her desk and resume jotting down notes, "Jacqueline, dear," he put his hands on her shoulders, "Is there any particular reason a woman is standing in our sitting room?"
He would give Watson that at least, that it 
 a woman and not a man in disguise.
"Eez it not obvious?" she looked up at him, "She eez a client, Sherwood."
"But I wasn't here."
"She said she would wait," Jacqueline shrugged and moved back to her notes.
Watson, ever the more polite of the two men, moved a chair to face the woman, "Would you, er, care to sit down?"
The woman just stood there, body aligned to clearly look at Watson, though it just made him more uncomfortable the longer the silence went on.
Holmes rolled his eyes, understanding quickly that Watson would 
, in fact, be able to solve this on his own, and huffed, "Good afternoon," he greeted, turning to lean partly on Jacqueline's desk while she wrote on, "I'm Sherlock Holmes. It appears you have met my wife, Jacqueline, but this is my friend and colleague, Doctor Watson. You may speak freely in front of him, as he rarely understands a word."
"Holmes," Watson huffed.
Jacqueline hid a rather unladylike snort behind her hand, finally setting down her ink pen to turn in her chair demurely, watching the scene unfold.
"However, before you do, allow me to make some trifling observations," Holmes continued, looking her up and down, seeing if he could give Watson one more chance if he basically spelled it out for him, "You have an impish sense of humor which currently you're deploying to ease a degree of personal anguish. You have recently married a man of a seemingly kindly disposition who has now abandoned you for an unsavory companion of dubious morals. You have come to this agency as a last resort in the hope that reconciliation may still be possible."
"Good Lord, Holmes!" Watson cried oud, frowning deeply.
"All of this is, of course, perfectly evident from your perfume."
That part, however, startled Watson into confusion, "Her perfume?"
"Yes, her perfume, which brings insight to me and disaster to you."
"How so?"
"Because you did not recognize eet," Jacqueline remarked.
The woman before them reached up a pale hand and tugged on the side of her veil, lowering it to reveal the face of...
"Mary!" Watson gaped.
"John," Mary offered him a fond smile.
"Why, in God's name, are you pretending to be a client?"
"Because I could think of no other way to see my husband, Husband," Mary greeted, before casting a smile over to Jacqueline, "Merci beaucoup, Jacqueline."
Jacqueline merely waved a hand, "De rien."
~8~
Jacqueline rested partly sitting on the open window on the other end of the room, turned to face Holmes as he played on his violin the wedding song he had composed for the Watson wedding, now out of his coat and into a more comfortable tan colored dressing gown. He did love to play, but Jacqueline could tell he did so more in an effort to afford the Watsons some semblance of privacy while they had a small tiff by the fireplace. Though it wasn't quite enough as both could still very clearly hear the duo who weren't making an effort to be more quiet.
"It was an affair of international intrigue!" Watson seemed to be angrily defending himself.
Mary scoffed, "It was a murdered country squire."
"Nevertheless, matters were pressing."
"I don't mind you going, my darling," Mary sighed, "I mind you leaving me behind!"
"But what could you do?!"
"Oh, what do you do?" she huffed, "Except wander round, taking notes, looking surprised? Jacqueline is allowed on your excursions, why can't I?"
"Jacqueline is not 
 wife," was Watson's defense.
Holmes quickly stopped his playing, "Enough!" he snapped.
He had no qualms with allowing the Watsons to use his home to air out their grievances, but he drew the line at them dragging his own wife into their petty squabbles.
Jacqueline gave him an understanding look, rising from the window ledge and approaching, taking his beloved violin from him with a kiss to his fingers that had been digging into the strings too harshly the last few moments.
Holmes took a breath, feeling the irritation ease out of him at her gentle action, she truly was adept at getting into the minds of other people and understanding them in ways he could not. She knew where his mind had gone, and she was reassuring him with a single kiss that she did not fault him the times he left her behind, that she understood and trusted his decisions.
"The stage is set," he continued, more calmly, "And the curtain rises. We are ready to begin."
"Begin what?" Mary frowned.
"Sometimes, to solve a case, one must first solve another."
"Oh," Watson blinked, "You have a case, then, a new one?"
"An old one. Very old. I shall have to go deep."
"Deep? Into what?"
"Myself."
A door opened and the trio turned to see Jacqueline at the door to the flat, opening it with a smile on her face to reveal Inspector Lestrade loitering there, looking desperate to knock but hesitating to do so, "Gregory!" Jacqueline greeted, leaning in to offer the man a warm hug, "Please, come in, come in," she gestured him onward.
He was one of the few men who would, sometimes, ask her advice on cases that came across Scotland Yard when Holmes was unavailable, having seen first hand how she had skills of her own, unique to solving crimes, that the great Sherlock Holmes himself lacked. It was a skill that proved useful and clear now, for the first question out of her mouth once he head stepped inside was…
"Qu'est-ce qui ne va pas?" she looked at him, concerned.
Lestrade let out a huff that sounded dangerously like an almost tearful laugh, fumbling with the edge of his hat. He glanced off to the side, before turning to observe Holmes moving to sit in his armchair, the Watsons standing off to the side, "I…I'm sorry to just come up," he spoke instead of answering the question, "Mrs. Hudson didn't seem to be talking…"
Jacqueline stepped away from him and moved over to Holmes, absently reaching out and taking the pipe from him as he moved to fill it with tobacco, setting it on the mantle with a sly smile and a wink to Mary.
Holmes, to his credit, didn't react or reprimand her at all, merely kept speaking to Lestrade as though nothing had happened, "I fear she's branched into literary criticism by means of satire. It is a distressing trend in the modern landlady. What brings you here in your off-duty hours?"
"How'd you know I'm off-duty?" Lestrade asked, unable to help glancing off to the side once more.
Holmes rolled his eyes, "Well, since your arrival you've addressed over forty percent of your remarks to my decanter," he gestured to the side where a silver tray had been set up with a few bottles of alcohol, "Watson, give the Inspector what he so clearly wants."
Watson huffed but did as requested, moving across the room to pour a drink for the man who followed far too eagerly, "So, Lestrade, what can we do for you?"
"Oh, I'm not here on business. I just thought I'd…drop by."
"You are not one for social calls," Jacqueline remarked, now standing behind Holmes, her hands on his shoulders.
"Inspector, my time is far too precious to waste on idle chatter," Holmes remarked dryly, for it was true, every moment wasted on topics he cared nothing for were moments he could be spending engaging in stimulating conversation with his wife, "What strange happening compels you to my door but embarrasses you to relate?"
Lestrade swallowed hard and took a very long drink from the glass, taking a breath and shaking his head, trying to gather himself, "Who said anything happened?"
"You did, by every means short of actual speech."
"Ah, Holmes," Watson shook his head, eyeing Lestrade as he downed the rest of the alcohol, "You have misdiagnosed."
"Then correct me, Doctor," Holmes offered with a smile, already aware of that in how Jacqueline had gently squeezed his shoulder at his remark. But, as it was Christmas, he would allow his friend to assume he was right.
"He didn't 
 a drink," Watson took the glass from Lestrade and turned it over, not a drop left, "He 
 one. He's not embarrassed; he's afraid."
"Very good, John!" Jacqueline praised.
"My Boswell is learning," Holmes agreed, reaching up to put a hand on Jacqueline's, looking up at her, "They do grow up so fast," before he turned back to Watson, "Watson, restore the courage of Scotland Yard. Inspector, do sit down."
Lestrade glanced at Watson as he went to get him another glass and moved to sit on a chair in the middle of the room, "I'm…I'm not afraid, exactly."
"Fear is wisdom in the face of danger."
"And bravery eez fazing zat danger in spite of zee fear wisdom creates," Jacqueline encouraged, which made Lestrade try to smile though it looked like more of a grimace.
"It is nothing to be ashamed of."
"Thank you," Lestrade spoke, both to them, and to Watson as he handed him the next glass.
"From the beginning, then."
Lestrade took a deep gulp of the liquid and followed it with a deep breath, before he began. "Mrs. Emelia Ricoletti," he started, "Well, she snapped. She dressed up in her wedding gown and stood on a balcony and opened fire on the passersby. She er," he looked down at his notes, "She used two pistols. Her face was…" he shuddered, "It was a mess, Mr. Holmes, people panicked and were running for cover but she just kept firing at any man she could. Kept calling out 'You!' while she did it. Then she…"
"A moment," Holmes interrupted, trying to imagine it clearly in his mind, "When was this?"
"Yesterday morning, her wedding anniversary."
"The bride's face. How was it described?"
"Er," he looked at his notes again, "White as death, mouth like a crimson wound."
"Poetry or truth?"
"Many would say they're the same thing."
"Yes, idiots. Poetry or truth?"
Lestrade shifted uncomfortably, "I saw her face myself. Afterwards."
"After what?" Holmes frowned at him.
"She, er, that is to say…when she seemed finished. She stopped shouting out 'You!' and asked 'Or me?' and then…" he made a gesture, unable to bring himself to say it, of turning a gun on himself and firing into his mouth. He winced apologetically at Jacqueline and Mary, though neither of them so much as flinched, "Blood everywhere, on the curtains draped behind her. Witnesses say she fell backwards into the room, where the body was recovered and taken to the morgue once authorities were called."
"Really, Lestrade," Holmes gave him an exasperated look, "A woman blows her own brains out in public and you need help identifying the guilty party. I fear Scotland Yard has reached a new low."
"I zink zere eez more to ze story, Sherwood," Jacqueline remarked, patting one of his shoulders.
Lestrade nodded, "That night, Limehouse, just a few hours later. Thomas Ricoletti, Emelia Ricoletti's husband, left his favorite opium den…"
"Presumably on his way to the morgue to identify her remains," Holmes assessed.
Lestrade took another drink for strength and nodded, "As it turned out, he was saved the trip. Because a cab approached him and a woman got out, dressed in a wedding gown, singing a song, her face hidden by the veil. But…well, it wasn't that way for long. She revealed herself to be Emelia Ricoletti, and she had a shotgun now. Horrified Mr. Ricoletti, understandably. One of our constables heard the commotion and confirmed it was her and Mr. Ricoletti identified her. And…well, then she shot him, twice."
"'Til death us do part," Holmes mused, "Twice, in this case."
"The constable said he saw a gaping wound on the back of her head when she walked away and left the scene. He was too much in shock to stop her, but quickly alerted more authorities for help."
"Extraordinary," Watson breathed.
"Impossible!" Mary exclaimed.
"Interesting," Jacqueline remarked.
Holmes, however, was grinning, "Superb! Suicide as street theater; murder by corpse. Lestrade, you're spoiling us. Watson, your hat and coat," he leapt to his feet and moved to the door, his hand having slid to Jacqueline's hand and tugged her along, a clear sign that he wished her to join them.
"Where are we going?" Watson moved to follow.
"To the morgue!" he hurriedly removed his dressing gown to change it for his jacket, "There's not a moment to lose…which one can so rarely say of a morgue."
"And am I just to sit here?" Mary demanded, hands on her hips.
"Not at all, my dear," Watson moved over to her, reaching out to tap her chin, "We'll be hungry later!"
"Jacqueline is going," Mary pointed out, glancing at the woman who looked back at her apologetic that she was allowed this while the other woman was not. But she was not angry with Jacqueline, she was more infuriated with her husband for forbidding her to join.
Watson gave her a pointed look, "She's not my wife," before he grinned and turned to Holmes, "Holmes, just one thing?" he glanced at Holmes' attire, "Tweeds, in a morgue?"
"Needs must when the devil drives, Watson," Holmes stated, turning to hurry down the stairs with Jacqueline, the man after him, Lestrade hesitating to follow, reluctant to have to handle this case.
~8~
Jacqueline would have laughed at Holmes's thunderous expression as they entered the mortuary, had she not also been very exasperated herself with who would be on mortuary duty that night. Anderson and Hooper, two people who were never quite cooperative with Holmes which made them an enemy of her as well for she was never pleased with people who disrespected her husband. They did seem to watch their words a bit more when she was around though, likely due to the fact she had kicked Anderson's strumpet Sally Donovan in the shins after she'd made a few too many snide remarks about him within hearing distance of her.
It had been a very quiet ride in the carriage after Lestrade had revealed that fact.
"Please tell me which idiot did this!" Holmes demanded as they entered the room to see the body they had come to look at, covered in the typical sheet, but chained down with several straps running down the length of its body and across it.
"It's for everyone's safety!" Anderson defended, turning from another body to glare at Holmes.
Watson ignored the fight and moved over to the chained body, able to pull the cover from its face to reveal Emelia Ricoletti, "This woman is dead. Half her head is missing! She's not a threat to anyone!"
Jacqueline spared a glance at the woman's head before moving further down the body, not wanting to have that image so clearly in her mind for the rest of time, looking more at the parts of Emelia she could see from under the sheet.
"Tell that to her husband," Anderson pointed back to the body he'd been working on, "He's under a sheet over there."
"Whatever happened in Limehouse last night, I think we can safely assume it 
 the work of a dead woman," Holmes remarked dryly.
"Stranger things have happened."
"Such as?" Jacqueline looked up at him, an eyebrow quirked.
Anderson hesitated, whether from being spoken to by a woman or a lack of answer they couldn't say, "Well…strange things."
"You're speaking like a child," Watson stated.
"This is clearly a man's work," Holmes glanced down at the body once more, "Where is he?"
Anderson hesitated once more, though he was saved from answering when the door at the side of the room opened and another man entered, wearing a suit, with messy brown hair and a fuzzy moustache.
"Holmes," the man greeted, and Jacqueline had to look away, moving over to a book that had notes about the autopsy written on it so the men would not see her small smirk. The voice was deep, yes, but by no means masculine. Hooper would have to work on that if he wanted to keep someone like Sherlock Holmes fooled much longer.
"Hooper," Holmes barely refrained from sneering.
"You," Hooper crossed the room, barking an order at Anderson, "Back to work!" waiting till he scurried away before he turned to face the detectives, standing on the other side of the body, "So, come to astonish us with your magic tricks, I suppose."
"Is there anything to which you would like to draw my attention?" Holmes deadpanned.
"Nothing at all, Mr. Holmes. You may leave any time you like."
"Doctor Hooper," Lestrade sighed, "
 asked Mr. Holmes to come here. Cooperate. That's an order."
Hooper rolled his eyes, taking a deep breath, before turning his attention to the body, "There are two 'features of interest,' as you are always saying in Doctor Watson's stories…"
"I never say that," Holmes defended.
"You do," Jacqueline remarked, moving back to his side now that she had memorized the notes for his use later, "Quite a lot."
"First of all," Hooper cut in, "This is definitely Emelia Ricoletti. She has been categorically identified. Beyond a doubt it is her."
"Then who was that in Limehouse last night?" Watson asked.
"That was also Emelia Ricoletti."
"It can't have been. She was dead. She was here."
Holmes reached into his pocket to pull out a small magnifying glass, leaning in to examine the woman's face more closely.
"She was positively identified by her own husband seconds before he died," Hooper huffed, "He had no reason to lie. He could hardly be mistaken."
"The cabbie knew her, too," Lestrade pointed out, "There's no question it's her."
"But she can't have been in two places at the same time, can she?" Watson frowned.
Holmes straightened up, thinking, "No, Watson. One place is strictly the limit for the recently deceased."
"Holmes, could it have been twins?"
"No."
"Why not?"
Jacqueline giggled, already knowing his answer, "Because eet eez never twins," she spoke for him.
"Emelia was not a twin," Lestrade confirmed, "Nor did she have any sisters. She had one older brother who died four years ago."
"Maybe it was a secret twin?" Watson suggested.
"A…what?" Holmes turned to him, staring at him as though that was the most foolish thing he'd ever heard…and 
 was still in the room.
"A secret twin. Hmm? You know? A twin that nobody knows about? This whole thing could have been planned."
"Since the moment of conception? How breathtakingly prescient of her! Leena is correct, it is never twins, Watson."
Watson crossed his arms, frowning, "Then what's your theory?"
"More to the point, what's your problem?" Holmes turned to Lestrade.
"I don't understand," Lestrade shook his head, "What…"
"You were too frightened," Jacqueline answered, idly looking down at the sleeve of Emelia's gown as it poked out of the sheet, "Nozing we 'ave seen would warrant drinking azz much azz you did," she glanced up at Lestrade as he gaped at her, "And zere eez zis," she gestured to the arm, a handcuff around it, "A dead woman 'as been put under arrest."
"That would be the other feature of interest," Hooper cut in, reaching out to the arm on her side and lifting the hand to show them the index finger, covered in blood. Watson, Holmes, and Jacqueline leaned in to peer at it more closely.
"A smear of blood on her finger?" Watson scoffed, "That could have happened any number of ways."
"Indeed," Hooper agreed, setting the hand down, "There's one other thing. It wasn't there earlier."
"And neither was that," Lestrade sighed, moving over to a wall and picking up a lantern, turning it to cast more light on the wall where a single word, etched in blood, was smeared across it.
YOU
"Holmes!" Watson gasped.
Holmes could only stare at the wall, not even noticing Jacqueline taking the magnifying glass from him to examine the letters more closely, "Gun in the mouth; a bullet through the brain; back of the head blown clean off. How could he survive?"
"She," Watson corrected, "You mean."
"I'm sorry?"
"Not 'he,' 'she.'"
"Yes, yes, of course," Holmes waved him off, before shaking himself out of his thoughts when he saw Jacqueline frown, thoughtful, "Qu'est-ce qui ne va pas?" he asked her gently in French, knowing the others in the room were not as fluent.
"Cela n'a pas été fait par un fantôme," she murmured.
However, Watson appeared to have worked more on his French since his marriage, "It wasn't a ghost?" he repeated.
Holmes rolled his eyes, irritated their conversation had been interrupted.
Jacqueline though, ever the kind woman, ever his humanity, turned to offer Watson a fond smile, "Very good," she praised, before turning back to the message, "Zis was not done by a ghost, qui. Un, zere eez no fingerprint," she held up the glass to show them the ends of the letter, the very last place it would have been touched.
"Well…if a ghost…" Lestrade began.
"Ah, but we 'ave zeen her finger," Jacqueline shook her head, "Eet eez meant to make us believe ze body over zere wrote zis. Ze fingerprint would be zere if zis was written by zat body. Zere eez none. Deux, zis means zat whoever wrote zis wore gloves."
"Fascinating," Lestrade moved forward to look at the letters closer, seeing no distinct pattern of a fingerprint.
"Trois," Jacqueline continued, "Zee writing is wrong. Eef zis was written by Emelia, using 'er right 'and, which eez where ze blood eez, ze writing would be different. Zis bears ze marks of writing with ze left hand, you see?" she began to trace her own 'YOU' on the wall with her right hand and then the left, being sure not to actually touch the blood, the slanting of the letters fitting more closely to when she used her left hand than her right. She turned, offering Holmes a small smirk, "Ergo?"
"Emelia Ricoletti did not write this message," Holmes returned her smirk with one of his own, "Someone else did."
"Who?" Watson frowned.
"All part of the mystery to solve," Holmes remarked, stepping forward to take Jacqueline's hand, kissing the back of it, his eyes on hers, knowing she was likely already making a list of things they could deduce about who had done this, but at least it confirmed it was a conspiracy and not a ghost, "Well," he turned to nod to Lestrade, "Thank you all for a fascinating case. I'll send you a telegram when I've solved it. Watson?" he called out, leading Jacqueline from the room to head back to the cab, Watson following only a minute or two behind to speak to Hooper about his medical thoughts on the examination.
"You, my dear, are brilliant," Holmes murmured when they reached the cab.
Jacqueline merely leaned in to press a kiss to his lips, "I learned from ze best."
He smiled and helped her into the cab first, glancing over his shoulder when he heard Watson on his way before he, too, climbed in.
"Well, Holmes?" Watson asked as he joined them, the cab starting off, "Surely you must have some theory."
"Not yet," Holmes admitted with a sigh, "These are deep waters, Watson. Deep waters," he absently took Jacqueline's hand even as he looked out the window, "And I shall have to go deeper still."
~8~
The case of Emelia Ricoletti swept through the city, with numerous articles appearing in the papers about it. Worse yet, it appeared to be spreading, with other men dying at the hands of the 'ghostly bride' which, of course, could only be Emelia Ricoletti in the minds of the unintelligent. It went on for months, more and more cases appearing and with each case, Lestrade would take a visit to 221B Baker Street to bring it to Holmes's attention, much to his irritation.
Holmes was currently stalking back and forth before the table Lestrade and Jacqueline were seated at, the woman casually reading, as though her husband were not pacing angrily before her, while Lestrade tried desperately to get his attention and interest in the growing case.
"Five of them now," Lestrade sighed, "All the same, every one of 'em."
"Hush, please," Holmes remarked, his eyes on a book of his own, open in his hands as his sharp eyes scanned the pages, "This is a matter of supreme importance."
"What is?"
"The obliquity of ze ecliptic," Jacqueline answered.
"I have to understand it," Holmes nodded.
"What is it?" Lestrade frowned.
"I don't know. I'm still trying to understand it."
Jacqueline laughed lightly, closing her book and placing it on the table, "Eet eez ze inclination of ze Earth's equator to ze path of ze sun on ze celestial plane."
Both men looked over at her for that, she merely winked and sat back in her chair, her grey eyes twinkling at Holmes. She had read that book weeks ago out of sheer boredom.
"What's so important about this?" Lestrade huffed.
"What's so important about five boring murders?" Holmes snapped in return.
"They're not boring! Five men dead! Murdered in their own homes, rice on the floor, like at a wedding, and the word 'YOU' written in blood on the wall! It's her! It's…it's the Bride. Somehow she's risen again!"
"Even I could zolve zis," Jacqueline gave Lestrade a soft frown, "Mrs. Ricoletti's murder 'as been everywhere. People are merely disguising zier own murders as hers."
"There you are," Holmes agreed, "Solved," he snapped his book shut and put it on the table on top of Jacqueline's, "Pay Mrs. Hudson a visit on your way out. She likes to feel involved."
Lestrade frowned, glancing between the two Holmes, hesitant, "You sure?"
"Certainly," Holmes declared, "Go away. Watson!" he called into the sitting room, reaching out a hand to help Jacqueline up, "I'm ready. Get your hat and boots. We have an important appointment."
"John 'as not been 'ere for months, Sherwood," Jacqueline reminded him easily, moving to the coatrack by the door to grab her shawl.
"Oh, yes, right," Holmes shrugged, moving to the door with his wife to pull on his deerstalker hat, "Come, my dear, we have a telegram to send."
~8~
"The what of the what?" Watson repeated as he sat across from Holmes and Jacqueline in the carriage, heading off god knew where. He'd received a telegram from them requesting his assistance with something and hurried to find them. It wasn't like he had much to do, Mary was off somewhere and the last thing he wanted was to be home with his bloody maid giving him sass in his wife's absence.
"The obliquity of the ecliptic," Holmes stated.
"'Come at once,' you said. I assumed it was important."
"It is. It's the inclination of the Earth's equator to the path of the sun on the celestial plane."
"Have you been swotting up?" Watson scoffed.
"Why would I do that?"
"To sound clever."
"I 
 clever."
"'e eez reciting from ze book," Jacqueline informed Watson, not bothering to add that it had been HER he was reciting from though.
"So not all that clever then," Watson joked.
"'e eez very clever," she defended with a smile.
"Then why are we on our way to see someone cleverer?" Watson shot Holmes a look, having accurately deduced that at least.
Holmes narrowed his eyes at him, "Shut up."
~8~
Jacqueline sighed as she stepped out of the carriage before the Diogenes Club, never a fan of this part of a case, having to speak to the man who hid away inside. It wasn't that she did not like Mycroft Holmes, it was just that he was often quite harsh on her husband and his eating habits were atrocious. She always walked away feeling ill after witnessing the man eat. Holmes took her hand, kissing the back of it, understanding her dislike of this but thanking her for joining him as they headed inside. They walked past signs asking for absolute silence until they reached an elderly gentleman standing at a desk.
Holmes nodded his head at the man, putting his gloves in his pocket so that he could more easily use his hands to sign his message, 
The man, Wilder, nodded, and signed in return, 
 Sherlock gestured to Jacqueline.
Jacqueline smiled, giving him a nod and gesturing out the sign for 
 Sherlock continued with a nod to Watson.
 the man smiled at Watson, 
Both Holmes and Jacqueline turned to Watson to observe his response, the man looking a bit startled and hesitant, but tried to sign in return, 
Jacqueline winced as he got the last word wrong, or so she hoped it was wrong, Holmes more gaped at him while Wilder frowned and signed 
 he repeated, 
Jacqueline hid a laugh behind her hand and reached out with her other to pat his shoulder.
 Holmes commented, rueful, 
"Sorry, what?" Watson spoke aloud, completely lost.
Holmes just rolled his eyes, taking Jacqueline's hand to lead her off, leaving Watson there for a moment before he followed, hurrying after them and catching up just as they reached a door to an office. They pushed it open and entered to see a very obese man sitting in a chair, more like wedged in one, his back to the door, surrounded by tray after tray of foods, from puddings to pies, steaks to ham.
"To anyone who wishes to study mankind, this is the spot," Mycroft called, hearing them enter and shut the door.
"Handy, really," Holmes remarked as they moved around the food to stand before Mycroft, "As your ever-expanding backside is permanently glued to it. Good morning, brother mine."
"Sherlock. Jacqueline, dear. Doctor Watson."
"You look…" Watson began, floundering for a word when Mycroft held out a hand to shake, "Well, sir."
"Really?" Mycroft looked considering of that, "I rather thought I looked enormous."
"Oh Mycroft," Jacqueline sighed, "You are going to eet yourself into an early grave at zis rate."
"She's right," Watson agreed when the man reached for some sort of beverage in a glass nearby, "This level of consumption is incredibly injurious to your health. Your heart…"
"No need to worry on that score, Watson," Holmes cut in.
"No?"
"There's only a large cavity where that organ should reside."
"It's a family trait," Mycroft agreed, not sounding insulted at all.
"Hmm," Jacqueline hummed, "Must 'ave skipped a generation," she reached out to fix Holmes's jacket lapel, patting a hand over his heart for a moment, indicating that HE had one at least.
Watson wasn't amused, by the brothers' banter, "If you continue like this, sir, I give you five years at the most."
"Five?" Mycroft was shocked, "We thought three, did we not, Sherlock?"
"I'm still inclined to four," Holmes remarked.
"As ever, you see but you do not observe. Note the discoloration in the whites of my eyes, the visible rings of fat around the corneas…"
Holmes rolled his eyes, "Yes, you're right. I'm changing my bet to three years, four months, and eleven days."
"A bet?!" Watson turned to them, horrified that they were betting on something so serious. Jacqueline did not look pleased but more resigned, as though she had tried to put an end to it at some point but been unsuccessful.
"I understand your disapproval, Watson," Holmes turned to him, "Jacqueline shares them, I assure you. But if he's feeling competitive it is perfectly within his power to die early."
"That's a risk you'll have to take," Mycroft agreed.
"You're gambling with your own life?" Watson turned a frown on Mycroft, utterly stunned that the man seemed intent to eat himself into an early grave as Jacqueline put it.
"Why not?" he shrugged, "It's so much more exciting than gambling with others."
"Three years flat if you eat that plum pudding," Holmes called, nodding to a plate of it to the side.
"Done!" Mycroft cheered and reached over for it, shoving it into his mouth, much to the disgust of those watching.
A/N: Woo! I'm very happy to be back and I'm so excited to see where Leena and Sherlock's story goes :) I also may possibly have 2 surprises in the last chapter's notes but we'll have to wait and see what it might be };)
I hope you enjoyed the chapter, it was a lot of fun to write a more Victorian version of the characters :) I liked being able to tweak them a bit to reflect the times but also who they are at their core. We get a more gentelmanly Sherlock, but one who is very much in love with his wife :) We get a bit more of a Leena who doesn't have all the experience her present self does, who doesn't have that ability to sort of make a career for herself, but who still helps and understands Sherlock and is empowered by him to do what she wants :) And we get a sort of more sexist John, but one who is fiercely protective of his friends and those he loves :)
This chapter and the next two are mostly going to be lighter in tone than the main episodes will be, fair warning now }:) They are also much shorter, being broken into 3 than 2, so the main episode chapters will be longer :) I think the shortest main-chapter is a little over 16k words so far, so this story is going to be packed with a lot of goodies...and angst...and fluff...and trauma...and mystery of course ;)
Translations:
Oh Sherwood, attencion, s'il vous plait! - Oh, Sherwood, attention, please!
Tu t'inquietes trop - You worry too much.
Jamais - Never.
Je suis desole - I am sorry.
Bonjour. Je suis Jacqueline Holmes - Hello, I am Jacqueline Holmes.
Je vais mieux aussi, en t'ayant épousé - I'm better too, having married you.
Merci beaucoup, Jacqueline - Thank you, Jacqueline.
De rien - You're welcome.
Qu'est-ce qui ne va pas? - What's wrong?
Cela n'a pas été fait par un fantôme - This wasn't done by a ghost.
I don't speak French and many of the translations came from Google Translate, so if they are wrong or if there's a better way to phrase it, please let me know and I'll fix it :)
Some notes on reviews...(from the end of Welcome Holmes)...
Just have to start by saying a general, yup, we now have a 4th story :) And thank you all so much! I'm so glad you enjoyed it :')
There was a camera set up in Sherlock and Leena's room ;) When Mycroft and John saw it, their minds went to the gutter and jumped to some conclusions about WHY there was a camera set up in their bedroom that were probably NOT at all why there was one there lol :) We'll actually find out what it was for in this story ;)
I had a mini-freak out when I worked out CAM too :) I noticed Mary's expression when Sherlock read the 'Cam' note and then when they said Charlie's name, I was like OMG WAS THAT HIM!? O.O
Lol, that's ok :) Thank you for leaving a review even if you felt the story was boring :)
You have every right to express your POV, no worries. My OCs aren't everyone's cup of tea and that's fine. It 
 my aim to add an OC to the original story though, so that will be a theme in every story I write and the plot does change in some instances, but if you're looking for more original works, the main stories probably aren't for you ;) I would much rather people read stories they like than stories that get them angry. Sorry you read so many of mine and felt that way, I hope you find other stories you enjoy more :)
I may have an idea in mind that should make it easier with the stories between series, if there's a series 5, sort of like an extension, we'll find out more about that in the last chapter ;)
