"John! John! Wake up, it's urgent", Sherlock pleaded shaking John.
It was 2:30am.
John stirred and mumbled some nonsense to the detective.
"John I know you're awake, it's urgent! Get up."
John yawned and rubbed his eyes. "Yes clearly urgent Sherlock", he gestured to the man who was in his pjs and holding a biscuit in his hand.
Sherlock shot him a frown. "I miss the days when you just did what I said without saying anything".
John sat up and yawned again, "Ah well I was young and stupid back then".
"You're still stupid", Sherlock concurred.
"Oi", John shot at him. He got up and stretched and follow the detective down the stairs to their shared living space.
"So. What's so urgent?", John asked.
"Deduce it."
"No Sherlock, I'm too tired for this. Just tell me please".
John made his way to his chair and slumped into it as Sherlock walked over to his but he didn't sit down.
"This", he said pointing at his skull which had a festive reindeer headband on it.
John looked at the skull then at Sherlock, then the skull, then Sherlock, then the skull, then Sherlock.
John cleared his throat.
"Right so. You woke me up at no mams hour to show me your skull".
"John don't you see", he whined flicking one of the ears causing it to sway back and forth.
"I do see Sherlock, but I don't see how this is urgent".
Sherlock slumped into his chair now. "I don't like it".
"I like it"
"Well of course you'd like it, you give into any sort of sentimental notion", Sherlock snorted.
"Mrs Hudson likes it. She's the one that put it there."
Sherlock snorted again. "Why would anyone comply to the stupid notoriety of Christmas?".
"It's festive. I like it Sherlock and guess what? Mrs Hudson plans on decorating the rest of our flat", he said with a small smirk.
"No..she wouldn't dare".
"And I'm going to help her".
"
wouldn't dare", Sherlock said playfully. He was smirking at John. John leaned in to get closer to Sherlock "Oh I would Detective Holmes". Sherlock leaned in towards him now, "then I guess I will be waking you at this hour everyday".
"I'd. Like. To. See. You. Try." John said slowly. The men gazed at one another for a few moments and then the doctor managed to avert his gaze and slowly got up from his chair and went towards the stairs back to his bedroom. "Goodnight Sherlock", he said turning to smile at the detective.
"Goodnight John", he replied with a smile.
