No one expected the press announcement to go the way that it did. Dr. Molly Hooper stood to the side, proudly watching Inspector Lestrade detail how he, Dr. Watson, and her fiance, Sherlock Holmes, had caught the latest criminal for the gaggle of newsagents huddled around with their notepads and pencils. It was only by sheer chance that Molly caught sight of the gun another bystander was pulling out of his coat.
Cold fright shot up her spine. "Sherlock, get down," she called, as she bolted towards him, trying to knock him out of the way before it was too late.
It was too late. The gun was too close. She felt the punch of the bullet tearing through her, but it wasn't until the pain set in that she realized it had gone right through her into the man she loved. Lestrade moved immediately to seize the shooter; Dr. Watson provided the best medical care he could- but it wasn't enough.
As their blood intermingled on the cobblestones beneath them, Molly felt the slight squeeze of Sherlock's hand in hers before she passed; little did she know, Sherlock wasn't far behind.
"...Just say these words-'I love you.'" Sherlock had asked. He stood watching the screen Eurus had set out for them in Sherrinford. Trying to get Molly Hooper to say the three words that would save her life was surprisingly challenging, and time was running out. He struggled to keep the panic from his voice.
She seemed to be cracking and then said, "You say it. Go on. You say it first."
"What?"
"Say it. Say it like you mean it."
"Final twenty seconds," came over the loudspeakers.
Sherlock floundered. He looked back to John in panic, hands spread, question on his face.
"Sherlock, it doesn't matter if it's true! Just say it!" John worried.
Sherlock turned back to the screen. "I- I," he gulped. "I lo-."
The timer went off.
"Oopsie, Sherlock, too slow." Eurus said.
Sherlock's eyes widened. He yelled into the still-open phone line, "Molly, get out-" the line abruptly cut off. "Molly. Molly!" He turned to the screen where Eurus's face was showing, "You don't have to do this. I get it, you win. Don't do this!"
"Rules are rules, brother dear."
Sherlock staggered back into the center of the room, as John stepped forward to grasp his shoulder.
The door into the next room opened. "The next puzzle is ready, Sherlock, time waits for no man, as they say," Eurus' voice piped into the room.
"Come on, Sherlock," John prompted, letting go of his friend as he moved towards the door. Mycroft trailed after the shorter man, leaving Sherlock standing before the coffin. Mycroft and John turned back when they reached the doorway to see Sherlock placing the coffin lid gently on top of the coffin. In a quick moment, Sherlock's hands pounded into the wood, shattering it as he smashed the vessel to pieces.
The vivisection was over. Somehow, Sherlock had broken through to his sister in time to save John, but when Lestrade came to help with the scene at Musgrave Hall, the first thing on Sherlock's mind- "Lestrade, send someone to Molly's flat, Eurus said that she-" Sherlock stopped as he saw Lestrade's stillness. "What? Go, send your officers to do something useful for once-"
"Sherlock."
The consulting detective paused.
"She's in hospital. There was an explosion near her flat, so far it's looking like it might be a bomb. She had gotten part way out of the building, but she was still close enough to the blast to be badly hurt…. They're not sure if she's going to make it."
Sherlock's face stilled, a study in frozen thought. "Take me there."
Molly's hospital room was silent except for the beeping of machines and monitors. Sherlock could tell as he walked into the room that every breath pained the woman in the bed.
"Molly."
Her eyes opened just enough to see him, and her mouth upturned in a small smile as she struggled to move even that much of her body. "Hello, Sherlock," she whispered.
"You're going to be okay. The doctors will look after you." He stepped to her side, fingers brushing her hand with a desire, but not the will, to take her hand in his own. "We'll get the best- you're going to be okay." Her head began to shake the tiniest bit. Tears started to well in the corners of his eyes. "You need to be okay." His voice broke. "I'm sorry I should have just said- why couldn't I have just-"
"Hey, hey, it's alright." Every word was broken and light as a feather as she struggled getting enough breath to form words. "It wasn't true. It was wrong of me to ask you to say something that wasn't true."
He took in a shaky breath. "But it was true." Molly's eyes widened just a bit. "It has been true for… so long, so long. It frightened me, always has, and you've always paid the price for it, and I'm so sorry. I'm so, so sorry, Molly."
"It'll be alright. We have time."
"That's right, Molly." His voice broke as he tried to order her to stay with him. "You keep fighting, do you hear me?"
She shook her head a little once again. "Sherlock, the damage is too much. You know this." Sherlock started to shake his head to deny. "No, you know this, you just don't want to believe it. But Sherlock, Sherlock, look at me," she waited until the detective looked into her eyes again. "When I'm gone, I want you to do something for me, alright." He nodded, desperate to do something, anything that would make her happy in this moment. "When I'm gone, go to the Thames, the closest bit you can get to from here. I don't want you to wait or grieve or take someone for support. Just go. Will you do that for me?"
He nodded with tears in his eyes. "What am I looking for?"
"You'll know when you see it." At his disbelieving expression, she smiled a touch. "Just trust me, you'll know."
"For you, Molly Hooper, anything." Instructions received, Sherlock sat in the chair by her bedside, holding her hand, until her breathing slowed then stopped, and the monitors sounded the flat, mournful sound of a life ended. He gave her hand one final squeeze, then stood up and left the room, headed for the riverbank. As he passed the window to her room, he barely noticed out of the corner of his eye that, from this angle, the bed practically looked as empty as his heart felt.
Author's note: Please review and comment! I know, it's a cruel place to leave it, but, rest assured, it won't be a cliffhanger forever and it will have a happy ending. Chapter 2 has been written and hopefully will be posted in the next couple weeks. What do you think Molly wants Sherlock to see? Does anyone have any guesses how the 1897 and modern day scenes are connected? Any other thoughts?
As you may have noted in the story description, this story is inspired by the show 
 that aired originally on ABC. If you've seen it before, you may have an idea what's happening in chapter 2; if not, well, I guess you'll have to wait until I post chapter 2.
I don't own 
or anything else besides my own ideas and contributions, and I don't make any money from my writing.
