JULY 27, 2009: 
 FOB HAMIDULLAH, SANGIN VALLEY, HELMAND PROVINCE, AFGHANISTAN
13:30 p.m., army time (1:30 p.m.)
Captain John Hamish Watson, MBBS, lay on his cot, reading 
, which he had purchased back in England while on leave before the Fusiliers had been redeployed to that U.S. base in Kandahar. He hadn't had a real chance to start reading it yet; so much had happened since then. Finally, though, there was some downtime, and he had a chance to catch his breath and relax. And read his new book, which he had just started reading the night before. Only, after almost two years, it wasn't so new anymore. Until lights out at bedtime, the captain had read voraciously the introduction, the prologue, and the first three chapters of the novel. Since he had read 
 as a child back in Chelmsford, Essex, this was a return to a fantasy world he had enjoyed back then.
So far, it had been a normal day—well, as normal as any day could be for a GP-turned-trainee trauma surgeon stationed at 
 FOB Hamidullah in Helmand Province. He had eaten breakfast with Major James Sholto, their unit's commanding officer, as he usually did on a weekly basis—sometimes with Major Robert Clancy, the Fusiliers' consultant surgeon under whom John was undergoing his surgical training. Sholto and his men had since gone out on patrol; only Dr. Clancy, Dr. Watson, and the nurses had stayed behind, in case any casualties were brought in. After breakfast, Dr. Watson and Dr. Clancy had gone on their daily rounds of their patients in the forwarding operating base's field hospital; for now, there were only a few, so there was plenty of downtime at present. They both knew, though, that that could change at any time.
Stopping to rest his eyes, Dr. Watson glanced up at the calendar on the bulletin board. It was Monday, July 27th, 2009. And the wall clock showed that it was 13:30, army time. He smiled at the memory of Corporal Tanner taking another photograph of him two weeks earlier; he had emailed it to Clara in London as soon as time had permitted. His older sister, Harry, should have it by now. 
 It had long since become his practice to send pictures of himself to his sister every few months; since he didn't own a camera, and since Corporal Tanner did, the good corporal always used his to take those pictures. John always made sure that there was nothing in the pictures that would upset or irritate Harry. In some of the photos, John posed by himself; in the others, he posed with some or all of his mates. Mates whom he had long since become close friends with during his years in Afghanistan.
 he thought. 
Clearing his throat, he turned his attention back to the chapter he had arrived at, Chapter Four: "A Short Cut to Mushrooms". He was reading the part about the hobbits' efforts to evade the Black Riders while they were travelling.
Suddenly, just as John came to the sequence where the hobbits ran into Farmer Maggot, there was a siren, and John leaped off the bed, inserted a bookmark into the chapter, and dropped his book on the nightstand. Dr. Clancy hurried into John's officer's quarters. "The patrol Sholto took the Fusiliers out on split up, and some of them joined another patrol that was out looking for trouble. That bunch has run into a skirmish five kilometres west of Sangin; from what I hear tell, a bad one. You better hurry, Watson," he ordered. "Murray's already waiting at the helicopter."
"Yes, Major." Nodding acquiescence, the trainee combat surgeon hastily donned his armour, snatched up his pack, glanced briefly back at his Tolkien novel, and rushed out the door and outside. 
 he thought. 
He knew what this meant; he and possibly other trainee surgeons and their nurses would have to retrieve the wounded soldiers and bring them either back to the base or to Camp Bastion. Fortunately, he was well-trained in field medicine techniques; they would come in handy in stabilising the soldiers for transport. He was equally well-trained in defending his patients and himself when the need arose, as it did all too often.
Dr. Clancy was right; one of the nurses, Staff Sergeant Bill Murray, was already waiting by the medevac helicopter. "Captain Watson," he said, and saluted; John saluted back. They boarded the helicopter, which rose into the air and flew off.
"Captain, when we were reunited at Bastion following our deployments, did you ever think we'd be doing this stuff?" Sergeant Murray asked, a few minutes later. "I mean, not just tending patients, but shooting at the enemy?"
Captain Watson shrugged and cleared his throat. "Well, I had an idea, once I arrived here. Major Clancy warned me back then that once I got started on my Specialty training, I'd start having to go on retrieval missions to battle zones. But I wasn't really prepared for how often that need would arise." He shook his head. "Neither of us even considered 
 of this when we first met at King's College!" Snorting, Bill nodded agreement. Glancing down at his side, John patted his SIG Sauer P226 in his holster. He briefly pushed back his helmet to wipe the gathering sweat off his face.
Minutes later, the helicopter landed close to a group of soldiers, some of whom were clearly wounded, in the vicinity of several mud-brick houses. The wounded all lay on the ground, with combat medical technicians already tending to them. The uninjured soldiers had set up a perimeter facing outward, guarding both their vehicles and the wounded. For the moment, anyway, the fighting seemed to have ended. A few other medevac helicopters had already arrived. Good. With extra transport, the wounded soldiers could be evacuated more quickly—hopefully before the fighting resumed, as it most likely would. Off to the side, an armoured BBC reporter, who'd been embedded with the unit for the last few months, was taking footage of the action.
Scanning the injured soldiers collectively to determine who needed immediate treatment and who couldn't be saved, Dr. Watson strode toward one whose right arm was bleeding profusely, Nurse Murray at his heels. The doctor knelt down at the soldier's side; since he didn't recognize that soldier, it was evident that he must be from the other patrol that some of the Fusiliers had joined with. The reporter moved closer to film the soldier's field treatment.
"You're going to be all right," he said soothingly. "Private—?"
"Private Thompson," the soldier said, wincing in pain.
"Well, Private Thompson, you've got yourself some damage to your arm, but I'm going to fix you right up."
It was indeed quite a nasty wound; a large vein had been punctured, causing haemorrhaging. Already, a pool of blood had spread all over his arm and had formed a growing puddle on the grass. Unless John and Bill acted quickly, the soldier would bleed to death. "Hold his arm still," the trainee surgeon ordered Bill, who grasped the soldier's hand and held it. Captain Watson's voice softened as he turned his attention back to the injured soldier. "Private, I'm not going to lie to you; this is going to hurt. But if I don't stop the bleeding, you'll die, and I'm not going to let that happen." He winked at Bill. "Hold Sergeant Murray's hand if you want—he likes that." Wincing, the soldier nodded as he managed a smirk, and Murray smirked back. As Bill held Thompson's arm still with his right hand, Dr. Watson wrapped a tourniquet around the upper arm, the soldier, stifling his moans of pain, squeezed Murray's left hand so hard, it turned red.
"I know, mate; it hurts like the billy-o," Murray told the soldier soothingly. "Just hang in there; it'll be over soon. They'll fix up your arm at the field hospital, and then you'll be good as new."
As soon as Captain Watson had written down on a strip of surgical tape the time that he'd wrapped the tourniquet and stuck the tape directly above the tourniquet, a pair of waiting medical corpsmen moved Thompson onto a stretcher and carried him toward the helicopter several yards away. For the next 15 minutes, as the reporter continued filming what they were doing, Dr. Watson and Nurse Murray, having already set up triage, hurried from one injured soldier to another, starting with the ones who were the most seriously wounded and yet had a chance to survive. Their comrades from Bastion did the same thing, treating each soldier in turn. Fortunately, for once, none of the wounded soldiers had any black crosses on their foreheads that marked them as not likely to survive, much to John's relief. One by one, they loaded the wounded soldiers onto the first group of evac helicopters, which flew off.
Suddenly, just as the medevac helicopters' roar died off, gunfire sounded from the nearby hills, startling everyone. Immediately, the uninjured soldiers started shooting back. Dr. Watson remained focused on his patient, one of the Fifth Northumberland Fusiliers, trusting that the other soldiers would have his back; however, he was fully prepared to start shooting if the need arose. Fortunately, that soldier's injuries were minor, and so as soon as Captain Watson was done treating him, the latter grabbed his rifle and returned fire. Meanwhile, as a villager stood nearby, a rifle in his hand, one of the soldiers broke the house's mud-brick door open and darted inside in an attempt to get some cover from the incoming gunfire; others knelt at the wall of sandbags and continued to fire. For the next several minutes, there was a raging gun battle around them, with the reporter filming while Captain Watson and Sergeant Murray darted from one injured soldier to another, to treat his wounds; several times, John had to stop treating his patient to fire at whoever was trying to shoot them. Since he shot with impeccable aim, every insurgent he shot at fell instantly. All the while, some of the uninjured soldiers knelt on the packed earth behind the sandbags, with some of them firing, and others opening their packs. Others darted here and there across the grass and knelt behind shrubs, firing shots. Insurgents fired several mortars that exploded here and there; some of the soldiers fired their own mortars back.
"Watson!" one of the Fusiliers shouted. John leaped to his feet; one of the other soldiers, another Fusilier, had been hit. Leaping over the sandbags and rushing towards him, he tended the soldier's injury. Fortunately, it was just a flesh wound, nothing life-threatening.
As Captain Watson and the soldier rose to their feet, the doctor scanned the other soldiers to see who else needed treatment. Suddenly, one of the soldiers, who was running toward a better vantage point from which to fire at the enemy, dropped on his stomach; an instant later, an IED went off close to him. John didn't need to be by his side to see that the soldier's right leg had been torn apart. He would have to treat him immediately. "Murray!" he shouted, and rushed toward the seriously injured soldier, Murray behind him. In that same instant, the gunfire and explosions stopped. The reporter raced after them, following the two men with his camera.
John and Bill knelt by the soldier, a Fusilier. "It's Corporal Ryan," John said, biting his lower lip. "While I'm having a look at his leg, find the injury that put him down, to begin with," he ordered his nurse, who nodded and got to work. Dr. Watson shook his head; already, the soldier's trousers were stained with blood. Removing a knife from his pack, the doctor cut the trouser leg off so that he could have a better look at the injury. He grimaced. Just below the corporal's knee, there were exposed blood vessels and bones, and heavy bleeding. Unless John could stop the bleeding, the soldier would be dead within minutes. As it was, the odds were great that part of the corporal's leg would have to be amputated.
 he thought grimly. He had to start life-saving treatment; if he didn't, Ryan would not survive the first hour after his injuries. The Golden Hour, the hour during which a critically wounded patient could be rushed to hospital, and emergency medical treatment of life-threatening injuries could be used most effectively.
Minutes passed as Captain Watson gave Corporal Ryan a shot of morphine, wrapped a tourniquet around his leg just above the knee, wrote down on a strip of surgical tape the time that he'd wrapped the tourniquet, and stuck the tape directly above it. As soon as he had finished that, he clamped the veins and arteries that had been oozing and spurting copious amounts of blood. Murray, meanwhile, checked Ryan's bullet wound.
"Murray?" John asked, as he worked.
"In one respect, he's lucky; it's just a flesh wound. Only a crease—the bullet's not still in the wound," Murray said, as he put some antiseptic on the wound.
"Good." Captain Watson nodded. "At least, in his case, we won't have to remove a bullet." Nodding in agreement, Sergeant Murray taped a bandage over the wound while Watson tended the leg.
"Doc?" Corporal Ryan's voice was tight with evident pain and fear. "It's—it's bad, isn't it?"
John laid a hand on the soldier's arm. "I won't lie to you, Corporal Ryan; you've sustained a very nasty wound to your leg, here," he said softly. "We'll take you first back to Hamidullah, 
 so Dr. Clancy can have a good look at you. Your leg needs to be temporarily stabilised before we can take you any further; once that's done, we'll take you by chopper onto Bastion." He gently squeezed the corporal's arm. "The sooner we can get you there, the better; there are very good surgeons at Bastion who'll be able to help. Don't worry, you'll be in good hands there, I promise you. Just hang in there, corporal."
"I hope so," Corporal Ryan whispered, his eyes squeezed tightly from pain. "I—I got a family back home, waiting for me, you know."
Dr. Watson squeezed his arm. "Then we're going to have to do everything in our power to make sure you return to them, aren't we? And I fully intend to do that, don't you worry." He wrapped two pressure bandages around the soldier's leg, underneath the tourniquet.
Suddenly, two gunshots rang out almost simultaneously, followed by several more. An instant after the first gunshot, an explosion of intense pain in John's left shoulder registered in his brain as a blinding, white-hot flash. He fell forward and dropped face-down to the ground. "Captain Watson!" he heard the injured corporal shriek out in horror, as if from a distance. The next thing he knew, an unfamiliar voice was calling in an air strike. At the same time, Bill cut the straps to get Dr. Watson's armour loose so that he could work, and that same unfamiliar voice was radioing for an extra evac helicopter to evacuate the remaining injured, 
! John's shoulder was in excruciating pain; try as he did, he could not completely muffle the moans he sought valiantly to suppress.
"Corporal—Corporal Ryan—" Captain Watson muttered, as he fought valiantly to stifle his moans.
"One of the medics is tending him as I speak," Murray assured him, as he pressed a pressure bandage against the entrance wound, gave him a shot of morphine, which began to ease the excruciating agony, and then rolled the wounded doctor slowly and a bit carefully onto his back. "Don't worry, sir, he's not being neglected." The injured doctor gave him a brief nod.
Bill started to make sure that John's airway was secure, and that he was breathing OK. For the moment, he was, so Bill packed the exit wound with some specialized gauze packing that was permeated with coagulant gel to cause John's blood to clot. The nurse literally shoved the gauze into the hole, hard, and then secured it with some bandages around Dr. Watson's body. Out of the corner of his eye, John could see the reporter standing close by them, filming the three of them. 
 he thought. Momentary irritation at the reporter surged in his heart, only to be pushed out by the heaviness of thought that the morphine was causing. When Nurse Murray was finished, he leaned back to assess his superior officer's general condition.
After a moment, Bill cleared his throat. "Sir, I packed the exit wound and slowed the bleeding—you'll be heading right into surgery as soon as you get to Bastion. I won't lie to you, Captain—the bullet entered your shoulder, near the joint, and it just missed your heart."
Nodding, the doctor squeezed his eyes shut. He knew that Murray was right. Meanwhile, more gunshots continued to ring out until the familiar roar of a helicopter drowned them all, followed by the fast, heavy stutter of a mounted machine gun from the chopper; in the next instant, the gunshots ceased.
"How—how bad?" he muttered.
"Can't tell for sure till we get in there," Murray said. "Your shoulder's shattered, sir." John nodded again. The armour-piercing bullet had gone right through his scapula and clavicle before exiting his body, he knew; only his front armour had stopped it. There was no telling how much damage his shoulder had sustained. Since the morphine had taken effect, his pain had been dulled. However, he knew that his injury was life-threatening. Captain Watson, as well as Corporal Ryan, needed immediate life-saving treatment.
"Please, God, let me live," the injured army doctor whispered. Clenching his fists, he took a deep breath. Silently, he added, 
A few minutes later, still keeping his eyes shut, John could hear the roar of an approaching helicopter that soon landed. Good. Help was coming. Shortly, he could feel hands touching him, lifting him off the ground. Opening his eyes, Captain Watson looked down at his shoulder and bit his lower lip as he looked at the heavy, already-blood-soaked bandage that had been packed around the bullet wound.
As the reporter videotaped them with his camera, the medics gently and efficiently laid Captain Watson and the soldier he'd been treating on the stretchers and carried them to the evac helicopter, with Murray trotting at Dr. Watson's side, and one of the medics staying by Corporal Ryan's side; as soon as they'd been loaded, the medevac chopper rose into the air and flew off. Shortly, it started becoming harder and harder for the doctor to breathe; his efforts to take deep breaths failed.
"No time to take you back to 
 FOB Hamidullah, sir," Murray told him, as he slipped an oxygen mask over the captain's head, and over his nose and mouth. John's breathing immediately became easier. "We're gonna have to take you and the corporal straight to Bastion and right into surgery," the nurse added. John nodded. He knew all too well what that meant: something was very, very wrong; he was dying. He might well die before they even reached Bastion.
"Please, God, let me live," he whispered again, his voice shaking.
Bill touched his arm. "In a way, Captain, you're lucky," he said. "I told you that bullet narrowly missed your heart. An inch or so lower down, and you'd have taken that bullet right in the heart." John nodded.
A moment later, he started really struggling to breathe, and his breathing developed a wheezing gurgle to it. He began coughing up and choking what felt like fluid. 
 he thought, silently swearing. The next thing he knew, the metallic taste of blood appeared in his mouth, and his breathing sounded more and more liquidly. He didn't need to see the oxygen mask to know that specks of blood must be appearing on the inside of his oxygen mask. He was dying; he knew it.
"Uh, sir," Murray said quietly, "we better insert a chest tube."
Dr. Watson nodded. "Do it, then," he said in a loud whisper. In a lower whisper, he prayed again, "Please, God, let me live."
Murray injected a local anaesthetic into the wounded doctor's chest. As a result, when the nurse made an incision next to the spot where he had injected the needle and inserted the chest tube, all that John felt was pressure. When the procedure was finished, it became easier to breathe once more, but the helicopter was darkening. "Please, God, let me live," he whispered yet again. "Please, God, let me live."
"Captain?" Sounding frantic, his nurse was raising his voice to get his attention. His eyes were wide with fear. He screamed, "John! Captain John Watson, don't you dare fall asleep on me now! Just hang on, sir; stay with us!" He swore.
"Please, Captain Watson, stay awake!" Corporal Ryan begged. "We need you!"
Try as John did, he could not do as Bill was begging him to do. "Please, God, let me live," he whispered again. As soon as he had finished whispering that prayer for the last time, everything went black, and just as he lost all consciousness, he was convinced that it was over for him.
