As Sherlock aimed at the bomb jacket, he and Jim staring each other down. Ally's heart was racing when light upbeat music started to play. "Ah ah ah ah stayin alive stayin alive ah ah-"
Sherlock John and Ally shared confused looks. Jim shut his eyes sighing. "D'you mind if I get that?" he asked the trio. "No, no, please. You've got the rest of your life." Sherlock said nonchalantly.
Jim dug in his pocket pulling out his phone. "Hello? ... Yes, of course it is. What do you want?" he asked rolling his eyes, mouthing 
. Sherlock mouthed 
 as Ally and John shared looks of 'what the heck' as they watched the two.
Jim made a series of annoyed faces as he listened, turning around calmly. "SAY THAT AGAIN!" he shouted, whipping around, Ally flinched at the sudden shout. "Say that again, and know that if you're lying to me, I will find you and I will ssssskin you." He hissed venomously.
Sherlock glanced at John and Ally. Her eyes locked onto Jim. "Wait." He said, lowering in the phone, putting it on hold. Jim took a few steps forwards making Sherlock adjust his aim to bomb jacket.
Jim stopped at the jacket, gazing down at the tiled floor thoughtfully. "Sorry. Wrong day to die." he said. "Oh. Did you get a better offer?" Sherlock asked. Jim didn't answer, glancing at the phone. "You'll be hearing from me, Sherlock." he said, glancing at Ally before turning away, strolling towards the door that led inside the school.
Jim raised the phone to his ear. "So if you have what you say you have, I will make you rich. If you don't, I'll make you into shoes." Jim said, snapping his fingers, instantly the lasers on Sherlock and John disappeared.
John sighed in relief, Ally releasing his hand almost sure he might have stopped the blood flow. "What happened there?" John asked. Sherlock looked at his companions. "Someone changed his mind. The question is: who?"
Pancakes. The smell wafting out of the kitchen, instantly drew Ally there. Peeping though she watched John, flip a pancake high in the air. Setting it down, John smiled at her. "Morning, had a good sleep?"
"Yes." Ally replied, drawing a chair noticing that the usual morning tea was already made. "Pancakes?" she asked as John handed her a plate. "Chocolate chip pancakes?" John grinned. "Birthday treat." he replied, Ally smiled shaking her head, cutting into a pancake. "Alright, who told, Mrs Hudson, Molly or Dad?"
"Sherlock." John said, leaning over, setting a new pancake onto the stack. "I can't believe you didn't tell me."
Ally shrugged. "Never seemed important." She said, munching on a pancake, her eyes widened. "These are delicious…how are these delicious…You can't cook. You burnt chicken nuggets!?"
John chuckled. "Morning." Sherlock greeted, squeezing Ally's shoulder, taking his cup of tea, sitting next to Ally. John slid him a plate of pancakes and a knife and fork. Ally smirked.
Since John had become their flatmate he had become the odd 'mother bird' as one would say. He would fuss about them eating, making sure they were hydrated reminded them to drink water and such. Sometimes he would braid her hair, talk to her about comics, her papers-
"So what are we going to do today?" John asked. Sherlock set down his fork. "Lestrade has a triple homicide that he still needs to look into."
Ally grinned. "I love my birthday." She said, taking another bit of her pancake.
Ally yawned sipping some tea, as she typed her thesis on her laptop, John sitting on her left updating his blog. Sherlock standing on her right sipping form his mug as he leafed through a newspaper. Sherlock glanced at John. "What are you typing?"
"Blog." John answered. "About?" Sherlock asked, turning the page. "Us." John said. Sherlock turned another page. "You mean me and Ally."
"Why?" John asked. "Well, you're typing a lot." Sherlock said. Ally snorted, John glanced up at Sherlock. The doorbell rang. "Client." Ally said. John glanced at her. "How can you tell?"
"Single ring. Maximum pressure just under the half second. Thus, client." She replied, sending the thesis to the ICL. "Well, in 10 minutes, I will have officially graduated from my third university."
"Third?!" John cried. "Right then." Sherlock said walking towards the door. "So, what have we got?"
My wife seems to be spending a very long time at the office." a middle aged man said quietly. Ally rolled her eyes. "Boring." Sherlock said instantly.
"I think my husband might be having an affair." a woman said slowly. "Yes." Sherlock replied. The woman's eyes widened, glancing at her feet. Ally sighed, reaching for 'The-crying-client-tissue-box. "Here."
"She's not my real aunt." The man insisted, holding a funeral urn. Ally curled up on the couch, glancing at her father who was pacing in front of her. "She's been replaced. I know she has. I know human ash." He said, stroking the urn.
"Leave." Sherlock said pointing at the door.
"We are prepared to offer any sum of money you care to mention for the recovery of these files." said the business man, staring between John and Sherlock. "Boring." Ally said, opening the door.
"We have this website. It explains the true meaning of comic books, 'cause people miss a lot of the themes." said a young man, his compainions looking away shyly.
Sherlock rolled his eyes, walking away from them. "But then all the comic books started coming true." The man said quickly. Sherlock walked back. "Oh. Interesting."
John typing on his laptop, updating his blog. Sherlock leaned over his shoulder. Ally smiled, returning her attention to her new comic book."Geek Interpreter.' What's that?" he asked. "It's the title." John said. "What does it need a title for?"
John smiled tightly. Sherlock straightened up and walked to the kitchen.
Ally, Sherlock and John inspecting a woman's body at Bart's. "Do people actually read your blog?" Sherlock asked, inspecting the woman's body with his mini magnifying glass. Lestrade standing by the door, watching the three.
"Where d'you think our clients come from?" John said. "I have a website." Sherlock replied. "In which you enumerate two hundred and forty different types of tobacco ash. Nobody's reading your website." John said.
"Two hundred and forty three, John." Ally corrected, closing her own mini magnifying glass. Sherlock straightened up, glaring at John, pouting for a second.
"Right then: dyed blonde hair; no obvious cause of death except for these speckles, whatever they are." John said pointing at them, glancing up at Sherlock. But he had already turned and walked out of the room.
Ally turned to John. "Fantastic, now he's gonna be moody all day."
Ally flipped through her Ultimate Wordsearch book. She was on page 800. John sittig at the table, updating his blog. Sherlock walked past eating a piece of toast, carrying the morning paper. He stopped walking back reading from behind John. "Oh, for God's sakes!" he cried, his mouth still full of toast. "The Speckled Blonde?!"
John paused, as Sherlock walked away. "Moodddyyyy" Ally said in a singsong voice.
Ally, Sherlock and John watched two little girls about three years younger than Ally. 
They wouldn't let us see Granddad when he was dead. Is that 'cause he'd gone to heaven?" one of them asked.
"People don't really go to heaven when they die. They're taken to a special room and burned." Sherlock said, pausing in his pacing, Ally nodded from his chair. The two girls glanced at each other. "Sherlock…" John started.
"After that, there either, throwing into a river or where ever they wished to be thrown or thrown into the rubbish bin." said Ally. "The reason they might not have let you see him, could have been because he was mangle and bloodied-"
"Ally!" John cried.
"What? It's the truth!"
"There was a plane crash in Dusseldorf yesterday. Everyone dead." Lestrade said, leading the three across an open plane of gravel, grass and sand near the airport. "Suspected terrorist bomb. We do watch the news." Sherlock said.
"You said, "Boring," and turned over." John said, as Lestrade leaded them to a car, with its boot open. "Ohh a dead body." Ally said, John and Lestrade shot her a looks. The younger pouted, as she watched her father start to inspect the car.
Leaning over she took in Lestrade's bag of evidence. "Well, according to the flight details, this man was checked in on board. Inside his coat he's got a stub from his boarding pass, napkins from the flight, even one of those special biscuits." He said showing them to her, Ally taking a metal photograph. "Here's his passport stamped in Berlin Airport. So this man should have died in a plane crash in Germany yesterday but instead he's in a car boot in Southwark."
"Lucky escape." John said sarcastically. "Any ideas?" Lestrade asked, glancing between Sherlock and Ally. "Eight, so far." Sherlock said examining the man's hand with his mini magnifying glass. He straightened up and glancing back at the body, frowning. "Ally." He called, the younger next to him, inspecting the body.
She looked up at him, an unusual look of confusion on her face. "Okay, four ideas." Sherlock said, looking over the evidence. "Four?" she asked, glancing at her father. Sherlock paused, gazing up into the sky.
"Maybe two ideas." he said, as the shadow of a plane passes over them.
"No, no, no, don't mention the unsolved ones!" Sherlock cried, wearing his heavy protective gloves, safety glasses, holding a blowtorch in one hand and a glass beaker of green liquid in the other. He and Ally were experimenting again.
"People want to know you're human." John said. "Why?" Sherlock asked. "Cause they're interested." John said. "No they're not…Why are they?" Sherlock asked. John smiled at his laptop. "Look at that." he said, gazing at his hit counter. "One thousand, eight hundred and ninety-five."
"Sorry, what?" Sherlock asked. "I re-set that counter last night." John said. "This blog has had nearly two thousand hits in the last eight hours. This is your living, Sherlock. Not two hundred and forty different types of tobacco ash."
"Two hundred and forty-three, John!" Ally shouted, from the kitchen. "Oh!" she cried, suddenly a loud bang rang out. Making the two whip around staring at the kitchen. Walking out dressed in her own protective gloves and safety glasses, Ally appeared. Her ponytail loose and her face covered in some dirty smudges.
"I require the fire extinguisher." she said, walking across digging in the cupboard. "We also need a new cupboard door…and a window."
"So, what's this one? Belly Button Murders?" Sherlock asked, as the three walked across the stage of a theatre. "That sounds silly." Ally said. "The Navel Treatment?" John suggested.
"Eurgh!" Sherlock grumbled.
"There's a lot of press outside, guys." Lestrade said, as they walked through the backstage. "Well, they won't be interested in us." Sherlock said. "Yeah, that was before you were an internet phenomenon." Lestrade said. "A couple of them specifically wanted photographs of you three."
Sherlock sighed, turning and glaring at John. "For God's sake!" John gave him a small smile. Sherlock reached into a room, grabbing some hats of a rack. "John." He said, tosses a cap at him. "Cover your face and walk fast." Sherlock said, turning to Ally taking her hand, pulling her close to him. Ally instantly hid into her father's coat.
"Still, it's good for the public image, a big case like this." Lestrade said. "I'm a private detective. The last thing I need is a public image." Sherlock replied, pulling on a hat, turning up his coat collar. Pushing open the door, pulling his hat and coat collar as low as possible as the photographers started to take their pictures.
Ally sighed, highlighting of new found words out of her Ultimate Word search book. Page 905. Smiling to herself as she found 'Floccinaucinihilipilification.' When Mrs Hudson shouted from the kitchen. "Boys! Ally! You've got another one!"
The man sitting on the client chair, was staring blankly in front of himself. John sitting behind him on the couch. Ally on John's chair and Sherlock pacing in his pyjamas and red nightgown. "Tell us from the start. Don't be boring." He said sternly.
To cut a long, annoying and blubbering conversation. Somewhere in the countryside the client's (Phil) car has broken down in a quiet country lane. He attempted to start the engine for but the car refused to start. Phil got out of the car and decided to tweak a few things from under the open bonnet.
He looks into the field at the side of the road. The field stenches 'for miles' down to a small river some distance away. There was man wearing a red jacket standing near the river. He has his back to the road.
Phil stares at him, but turns his attention back to his car. After a few more try's to start the engine. It backfires. The client (Phil) glances at the river and sees the man is on the ground. He gets out of the car and calls out to him.
"Is that it?" Ally asked, after he finished. Phil nodded his head. Ally glanced at her father, raising an eyebrow.
Yawning, Sherlock wandered out from the hallway carrying the laptop from the kitchen to the lounge. "You realise this is a tiny bit humiliating?" said John from the laptop. "It's okay, I'm fine. Now, show me to the stream."
Ally covered her mouth to stop herself from laughing. He was in a sheet. A simple white sheet. "Nice sheet Dad." Ally said cheekily from the couch, throwing her comic book onto the table. Sherlock smirked at her. "I didn't really mean for you.-"John started.
Sherlock set the laptop on the table. "Look, this is a six." Sherlock said. The doorbell rang making Ally turn, before returning her attention to the screen. "There's no point in Ally and I leaving the flat for anything less than a seven. We agreed. Now, go back. Show me the grass." Sherlock said.
Ally pulled up a chair next to him, straightening her black skirt. The laptop screen shifted showing the Holmes the grass. "When did we agree that?" John asked. "We agreed it yesterday. Stop!" Sherlock said, leaning in looking closely at the mud.
"Closer." Ally said, John flipped the laptop around. "I wasn't even at home yesterday. I was in Dublin."
"Well, it's hardly my fault you weren't listening." Sherlock replied. The doorbell rang again, much louder than usual. Sherlock turned around glaring at the direction of the stairs. "SHUT UP!" he shouted.
"D'you just carry on talking when I'm away?" John asked. "Yes." Ally said instantly. Sherlock shrugged. "I don't know. How often are you away? Now, show me the car that backfired."
John turned the laptop showing the Holmes the road where Phil's car still stood. "It's there."
"That's the one that made the noise, yes?" Sherlock asked. John nodded, swing the camera around. "Yeah. And if you're thinking gunshot, there wasn't one. He wasn't shot; he was killed by a single blow to the back of the head from a blunt instrument which then magically disappeared along with the killer." John explained. "That's gotta be an eight at least." He grumbled.
"Nope." Ally answered shaking her head. Sherlock leaned back in his chair, running his finger back and forth over his top lip. "You've got two more minutes, then I want to know more about the driver." Came another voice.
"Oh, forget him. He's an idiot. Why else would he think himself a suspect?" Sherlock said, waving his hand. "I think he's a suspect!" came the voice again, that belonged to a middle aged detective. Sherlock leaned forward as Ally leaned back. "Single blunt instrument.' she mumbled to herself.
"Pass me over." Sherlock said.
John sighed. "All right, but there's a Mute button and I will use it." He threatened. John tilted the laptop.
"Up a bit! I'm not talking from down here!"
"Okay, just take it, take it." John said handing the laptop to the detective. "Having driven to an isolated location and successfully committed a crime without a single witness, why would he then call the police and consult a detective? Fair play?" he asked.
"He's trying to be clever. It's over-confidence." The detective replied. "Seriously," Ally said. "You think he's responsible?
"Did you see him?" Sherlock asked. "Morbidly obese, the undisguised halitosis of a single man living on his own, the right sleeve of an internet porn addict and the breathing pattern of an untreated heart condition. Low self-esteem, tiny IQ and a limited life expectancy. And you think he's an audacious criminal mastermind?!"
Ally turned around to Phil who had silently been sitting in Johns' chair. "Don't worry, this is just stupid." she assured. "What did you say? Heart what?" Phil blubbered. "Untreated heart condition," Ally answered.
"Go to the stream." Sherlock said. "What's in the stream?" The detective asked. "Go and see." Ally said, glancing at her father. "Complete idiot."
"Sherlock! You weren't answering your doorbell!" Mrs Hudson said. Bursting into the lounge with two men in suits behind her. "His room's through the back. Get him some clothes." said one of them.
"Who the hell are you?" Sherlock asked, instinctively pulling Ally closer. "Sorry, Mr Holmes. You're coming with us." Said the man reaching over and closing the laptop.
The man and his colleague stared at the Holmes, the man's colleague setting down a pile of clothes and a pair of shoes in front of Sherlock, who raises his eyebrows and shrugging.
"Please, Mr Holmes." Said the man. "Where you're going, you'll want to be dressed."
Ally looked at him. 'Expensive suit. £700. Unarmed. Manicured. Office worker. Right handed. Small dog, no three small dogs.' Her eyes widened glancing at her father. Sherlock smirked at her, glancing at the man's face. "Oh, I know exactly where we're going."
Buckingham Palace. The Buckingham Palace. Ally smiled, her eyes wide as she gazed around the large room. Taking in every detail. The magnificent candlesticks, the carpets, the tapestry's. The gold push couch, the small table with her father's clothes.
The Holmes turned spotting John in the doorway. John raised his hands in a 'What's going on' gesture. The Holmes shrugged.
Nodding John walked in sitting down next to Ally, who was in the middle. John paused biting back a laugh. Glancing at Sherlock, looking closely at his sheet. John turned his head away, breaking the silence. "Are you wearing any pants?"
"No."
"Okay." John said, looking away again, Ally smiled as Sherlock grinned at her, John turned around. The three's eyes met. Instantly that started laughing.
"Buckingham Palace, fine." He said, tries to stop himself from giggling. "Oh, I'm seriously fighting an impulse to steal an ashtray."
Ally and Sherlock laughed.
"What are we doing here, Sherlock? Ally? Seriously, what?" John asked. "I don't know." Sherlock replied, still smiling. "Here to see the Queen?" John asked. At that moment Mycroft walked in. "Oh, apparently yes." Sherlock said, instantly they started giggling again.
Mycroft sighed. "Just once, can you two behave like grown-ups?"
"We solve crimes, I blog about it, he forgets his pants and the eleven year old blows things up. So I wouldn't hold out too much hope." John said, making Ally smile. Sherlock looked up at his brother. "I was in the middle of a case, Mycroft."
"What, the hiker and the backfire? I glanced at the police report. Bit obvious, surely?" Mycroft said, his hands in his pockets. "Transparent." Sherlock replied coldly. John eyes widened glancing at Ally, his eyebrows furrowed.
"Time to move on, then." Mycroft said, picking up the pile of clothes and shoes from the table, holding them out at Sherlock. Sherlock glanced at them, before looking away. Mycroft sighed. "We are in Buckingham Palace, the very heart of the British nation. Sherlock Holmes, put your trousers on."
Sherlock shrugged. "What for?"
"Your client." Mycroft replied, Sherlock stood up, staring down Mycroft. "And my client is?"
"Illustrious..." came a new voice, who had just entered the room. Ally glanced at him. 
"...in the extreme." He said, John stood up, nudging Ally to do the same. "And remaining I have to inform you, entirely anonymous." he said, glancing at Mycroft. "Mycroft!"
"Harry." Mycroft greeted, shaking his hand. "May I just apologise for the state of my little brother?" The equerry took in Sherlock. "Full-time occupation, I imagine."
Sherlock scowled. "And this must be Doctor John Watson, formerly of the Fifth Northumberland Fusiliers." He said, shaking John's hand. "Hello, yes."
"My employer is a tremendous fan of your blog." The equerry said. "Your employer?" John said. "Particularly enjoyed the one about the aluminium crutch." The equeery replied. "Thank you." John said, glancing at Sherlock, smugly.
"And Mr Holmes the younger." The equerry said, stepping closer to Sherlock. "You look taller in your photographs."
"I take the precaution of a good coat, a short friend and an even shorter daughter." Sherlock said, walking past John and Ally towards Mycroft. "Mycroft, I don't do anonymous clients. I'm used to mystery at one end of my cases. Both ends is too much work." he said, glancing at the equerry. "Good morning."
Sherlock said, starting to make his way out of the door, when Mycroft stepped onto his trailing sheet behind him. Sherlock quickly stopped just grabbing the sheet before it fell to the floor. Attempting to tug it back around himself.
"This is a matter of national importance. Grow up." Mycroft scolded. "Get off my sheet!" Sherlock growled. "Or what?" Mycroft snapped. "Or I'll just walk away." Sherlock said. "Not again…" Ally mumbled, readying herself to cover her eyes. "I'll let you." Mycroft replied.
"Boys, please. Not here." John interjected. "Who. Is. My. Client?" Sherlock said though gritted teeth.
"Take a look at where you're standing and make a deduction. You are to be engaged by the highest in the land. Now for God's sake…" Mycroft said, glancing at the equerry, lowering his voice. "Put your clothes on!"
Sherlock (now dressed), John and Ally retook their seats across from Mycroft and the equerry who were sitting on the opposite couch. "I'll be mother." Mycroft said, pouring the tea. "And there is a whole childhood in a nutshell." Sherlock commented. Mycroft glared at him, setting down the teapot.
"My employer has a problem." The equerry started.
"A matter has come to light of an extremely delicate and potentially criminal nature, and in this hour of need, dear brother, your name has arisen." Mycroft said.
"Why? You have a police force of sorts, even a marginally Secret Service. Why come to us?" Sherlock asked. "People do come to you for help, don't they, Mr Holmes?" the equerry answered.
"Hmm, not, to date, anyone with a Navy. "Sherlock replied. "This is a matter of the highest security, and therefore of trust." Mycroft explained. "You don't trust your own Secret Service?" Ally asked, glancing between the two. Mycroft smiled. "Naturally not. They all spy on people for money."
John bit back a smile. "I do think we have a timetable." The equerry said, clearing uncomfortable with the conversation topic. "Yes, of course. Um..." Mycroft said, opening a briefcase, taking out a glossy photograph, handing it to Sherlock.
"What do you know about this woman?" he asked, Sherlock looked at the photo. "Nothing whatsoever." Sherlock replied. "Then you should be paying more attention. Ally, anything?" Sherlock glanced at her in surprise, showing her the photo.
Ally paused, glancing up, as she flicked though her memories of the name. "Irene Alder," she said after a few seconds. "It was in the paper. She's been at the centre of two political scandals in the last year, and recently ended the marriage of a prominent novelist by having an affair with both participants separately. John broke up with his girlfriend Sarah that week. She made good brownies." Ally said.
Mycroft's mouth twitched. "Yes, thank you, Ally. For now, could you-"
"Wait outside, I know." Ally said, jumping up and walking out of the room, sitting next to Athena, who was always never far from Mycroft.
Athena smiled at her, stroking her hair gently. Ally leaned closer to her. "Waiting outside, sucks." Ally grumbled. "I wish I was older."
Athena glanced at her. "Don't." she said. Ally furrowed her eyebrows. "Why not? I can be so much more helpful, if I was older."
Athena shook her head. "Never try and wish away your youth, you don't know when you might grow up."
"Ally!" Sherlock called, from the main room. Ally turned, squeezing Athena's hand. "Bye!" she said, walking in back in.
"Text me the details. I'll be in touch by the end of the day." Sherlock said, as Ally reappeared by her father's side. "Do you really think you'll have news by then?" the equerry asked. Sherlock turned around. "No, I think I'll have the photographs." He said, buttons up his blazer.
"One can only hope you're as good as you seem to think." The equerry replied. Sherlock glanced at him sharply. "I'll need some equipment, of course." Sherlock said, after a few seconds of silence. "Anything you require. I'll have it sent to-" Mycroft started.
"Can I have a box of matches?" Sherlock asked, looking at the equerry.
"I'm sorry?"
"Or your cigarette lighter. Either will do." Sherlock said holding out his hand. "I don't smoke." The equerry said. "No, I know you don't, but your employer does."
The equerry stared at him, before reaching into his pocket, taking out a lighter handing it to Sherlock. "We have kept a lot of people successfully in the dark about this little fact, Mr Holmes." he said.
"I'm not the Commonwealth." Sherlock said, taking the lighter and walking away. "And that's as modest as he gets. Pleasure to meet you." John said, following after Sherlock.
"Laters!"
"Okay, the smoking. How did you know?" John asked, as the three sat in the taxi on their way back to Baker Street. Sherlock smiled shaking his head, nudging Ally. "The evidence was right under your nose, John. As ever, you see but do not observe."
"Observe what?" John asked, Sherlock reached into his coat. "The ashtray." He said pulling out a glass ashtray. Making John and Ally laugh as Sherlock tossed the ashtray into the air, before tucking it back into his coat, chuckling.
"What are you doing?" John asked, as a new set of clothes few in the air, landing on the floor. "No," Ally said, dismissing the fireman hat.
"Going to battle John." Sherlock called. "Need the right armour." he said walking out in a bright traffic director jacket.
"Nope."
