"To the very best of times, John", Sherlock takes his glove off and stretches his hand out for John. They shake hands knowing that this is the last time that they're going to see each other. They don't embrace or kiss as they know neither of them would be able to let go, they already had a personal goodbye the day before in the comfort of 221b.
It's a suicide mission, six months in Eastern Europe, there a very low chance that the detective would make it out alive. John Watson knows this of course, he doesn't tell Sherlock he knows though.
As Sherlock starts walking to board the plane a black car approaches them on the runway with two little United Kingdom flags at the front. Mycroft and John make there way to meet Sherlock in the middle as they wait for somebody to exit the car. They're all visibly confused, however nobody voices it. This is a private airstrip, nobody even knows that they're there other than for the three men and Anthea.
The car comes to a stop and a short but fierce woman gets out. She has blonde sandy hair and she's wearing a clean cut suit, in her hands is a scroll. She approaches the men with authority with two men behind her, presumably her bodyguards and stands in front of the men.
"Sherlock Holmes?", she asks to the small crowd.
"Yes, that's me ma'am ", Sherlock says. He instantly recognises her and he's sure Mycroft does too but neither say a word.
"I am here on behalf of her Royal Highness. I am Ophelia Windsor Watson Partridge and I hereby declare you, William Sherlock Scott Holmes, immunity on the affairs that have led us to this moment", she reads from the scroll then looks up to Sherlock. "You have been given a royal pardon, Mr. Holmes".
"I- what?", he stammers. Mycroft sends him daggers and Sherlock composes himself. "Thank you, ma'am", he tries to say with certainty but he's extremely confused. Mycroft turns to Ophelia, "Ma'am although we are grateful for the outcome of this event, I must ask why I wasn't made aware of this?".
She gives him a warm smile, "I believe the pardon was a result of a personal matter", she briefly glances at John but the brothers don't notice. John is standing with his hands behind his back, watching everything unfold.
"I don't understand ma'am, given my position I would have thought that I would have been made aware of the official pardon. With no ill respect ma'am I'd like to know where this order came from", Mycroft says. They stand in silence for a few moments until the corners on Ophelia's mouth start turning up.
"Oh for god sake Olly, stop", John exclaims. Both brothers turn to face the doctor but are both rendered speechless.
"Oh come here, Johnny boy", Ophelia leaps and embraces John. "I'm so glad to see you, I could barely contain myself. You know how I am".
John pulls back from the hug, "if I knew it was going to be you coming here I wouldn't have come. Why didn't you send one of your lackeys?".
"Tut tut, Sir Partridge. Still have that attitude do you?", she smirks then breaks out into a big smile and hugs him again, "oh how I've missed you". He shoves her off, "okay okay, stop Olly". He flattens out his clothes and is met with the Holmes boys staring at him. Ophelia gasps, "Johnny you didn't tell them, did you?".
Finally finding his voice back, Sherlock speaks. "No he didn't. How on earth do you know the Royal family? You got me a royal pardon?".
"Sir Partridge", Mycroft says quietly with a hint of awe, "you're a member of the Royal family".
John smiles, "yes I am".
Ophelia laughs, "Oh Johnny, you're a bad man. How did you not tell them?", she looks at Mycroft, "Mr. Holmes I'm shocked, how didn't you know before?".
"I ran several background checks on John Watson and nothing in regards to the Royal family appeared".
"You hid it well, good job Johnny", Ophelia says.
"I did what I had to do. When I found out my flat mates brother was practically the British government I couldn't run the risk of him finding out", John says with a sink of defeat.
"And now they know do you think you'll return back to your title?".
"I don't know Olly, maybe. This isn't really a conversation to be had on an airstrip. Do you think Liz would mind terribly if we visited?", John asks.
Ophelia's eyes lit up, "When I told her I was coming her she actually hoped you'd ask that so insisted that I brought your uniform to wear there". John rolled his eyes, Ophelia continued, "You know she misses you dearly, she was quite upset when you didn't pop in to say hello when you were last at the palace".
"Well I couldn't really say hello with these two plonkers there. They didn't know, remember?", John said. The two were arguing whilst the brothers just watched in confusion. John was a member of the royal family and he was arguing with the Queens daughter. They both had no clue as to what position in the family John was in so they carried on listening hoping to find out. They didn't have to wait long.
"You were always the annoying little brother weren't you? Micheal here will fetch your uniform. Get dressed in the plane will you? I don't want to stop at Baker Street". One of the bodyguards went to grab John's uniform whilst Sherlock spurted out. "Brother?? John you're the Queen's son?"
"How did I not know this?", Mycroft added. John sighed in defeat and grabbed his uniform from the man. "There's a lot I haven't told you two, all within good reason. I'll explain everything at the palace.", Sherlock shot him a nasty look, "Don't look at me like that Sherlock, I just got you out of a suicide mission. Now I'm going to get dressed and I'll see you in a moment", he turned and walked up to the plane to change in privacy.
"I apologise ma'am for my informality, all of this news comes as a shock to me as well as my brother", Mycroft says formally. Ophelia snorts, "Oh, Mr. Holmes do not worry. I don't care for formality. I always hated it as does my mother, please ask away. Johnny always takes a lifetime to get dressed".
"John referred to her highness as "Liz" but then stated that he's her son. Why is that?", Mycroft asked.
"Mother and Johnny haven't had the best relationship so he calls her Liz to irk her. I advise you do not call her by that name only Johnny is permitted to do so".
Mycroft nods.
"So the Queen is John's mother, I met John's mother before though and it definitely wasn't the Queen".
"Oh gosh, Johnny really has left you in the dark. Well I suppose he had to. We will get to everything when we arrive at the palace. Speaking of, Eric could you phone and let them know that myself, Johnny and the Holmes brothers will be coming". She looks over to Anthea who has been standing by Mycroft car the whole time. "Oh and this young lady too, what's your name darling? Pardon my introduction".
Anthea looks to Mycroft and he gives her a nod. "My name is Anna, ma'am. I am Mycroft Holmes' PA. It's wonderful to meet you".
"Oh aren't you a darling, you can accompany us to the palace too. Mycroft have you married this one? How close is she to you?".
Mycroft's face flashes pink, "No ma'am, I have a husband. However Anna is family, I have known her since secondary school, she can be trusted".
Ophelia squeals, "A husband? Where is he now?".
"He's at work at the moment. He is the Detective Inspector at Scotland Yard".
"That fits with your persona, Mr. Holmes. You chose a good one".
"Thank you, Ma'am".
"Oh please, call me Ophelia. I really hate the formalities that come with being a royal".
"My apologies, Ophelia", Mycroft says, clearly flustered from the attention on him. Luckily she turns to Sherlock. "What about you, Sherlock Holmes? I remember rumours of you and Irene Adler, are you interested in anyone?".
Sherlock is flustered to now, being questioned by a royal for such personal matters is weird and uncommon.
"Yes I'm actually involved with someone at the moment. Irene and I we're never romantically involved if that's what you were suggesting", he says casually.
"Don't mind me prying but may I ask who the mystery woman is?".
"Man".
"Mystery man then".
Sherlock clears his throat and shuffles awkwardly. "Uh John. John Watson".
"What? Johnny boy has snatched himself up a man? Why didn't he tell me? Oh wow. You got yourself a good man, Sherlock".
Sherlock smiles awkwardly, "Thank you, Ophelia. However I'm not sure a relationship built on lies would suggest I got myself a good man".
"He had his reasons, all will be revealed later today. Johnny is a good man".
"I know, I know. It's just quite difficult to wrap my head around this situation. He got a royal pardon for me?".
"He did. A good man, like I said. When he phoned me it was honestly a surprise, I haven't heard from him in a while".
"If you haven't heard from him in some time why did you help him? Not that I'm suggesting what you did was bad, I'm just curious", Mycroft asks.
"Johnny is a member of the royal family despite who he says he is today. He's also helped out several times with different international and national affairs before he knew you two".
Mycroft went to ask another question but was disrupted by John walking back to them.
"Oh Johnny, look at you. Mummy will be pleased".
John was wearing his military dress wear, he had black pants lined with red stripes and his dress shirt filled with multiple medals. He could feels Sherlock analysing every single one, trying to figure out what they mean. "I know you have questions Sherlock, I'll answer everything at the palace".
"Right should we get going then, Johnny?".
"Actually when I was getting dressed I was thinking if I could invite one more person? I won't ever feel comfortable speaking the things we're going to talk about in the palace outside of it so I'd prefer if everyone in my close circle is there".
"Johnny has friends? What a shocker".
"Olly I preferred when you pretended you liked your royal title".
"Who is the person you wish to invite?", she said with sarcasm.
"Detective Inspector Gregory Lestrade, he is also Mycroft Holmes husband but he happens to be my closest friend. I'd like him to know about the things we discuss".
"I've already been made aware of the Detective Inspector. We shall invite him. Eric will pick him up from his place of work and he will meet us there".
John started laughing, "Bloody hell I hate that. Okay stop, no more formalities - God".
"See what I mean? It's tedious isn't it, I understand why you fled. Anyways why didn't you tell me about your relationship with Sherlock?".
John visibly tensed then relax when he caught Sherlock's eye. "We haven't spoken in a while and I didn't see that it was relevant to the orders I passed on, now let's all please get into the car. I'm sure mother is waiting on the edge of throne for me".
"Johnny I have missed you a lot, let's go then. Come along everyone".
They all climb into the car, it's lined like a limousine but it is just a bit longer than a normal car. Sherlock, John and Anna sit on one side whilst Ophelia and Mycroft sits opposite them.
"Thank you for inviting Gregory, I was afraid I was going to have to withhold this secret from him", Mycroft said quietly to John.
"Not a problem at all, he's a very close friend, family".
Mycroft gave him a nod and didn't speak for the rest of the journey.
John gently laced his fingers with Sherlock and looked up to him, "I'm sorry I didn't tell you about all of this, there was never a safe time to do so".
"It's okay, I understand", he whispered. He stroked John's hand with his thumb for a few moments, "you will tell me everything though? Right?".
"Yes of course, I will. We're okay though? I'm sorry for lying".
"I told you it's okay, I understand. Honestly I'm surprised I didn't deduce it. What I said on the day we met, was any of that true?".
"Yeah of course, you're brilliant. Of course it was all true. Just there's parts before that that you don't know about it. I would have told you if I could, but I couldn't".
"Why did you decide to do so now? How did you even know it was a suicide mission?".
"I'll explain everything when we get there. Just trust me, Sherlock. Please?", he looked into the mans eyes and saw them soften.
"Of course, John", he planted a kiss on his forehead and they rode in silence for the remainder of the journey.
As they entered the Buckingham Palace gates, Ophelia spoke up. "As we walk through the palace I expect you to treat me with the respect of a royal member".
John scoffed, "you are a royal member Olly. What she means is be formal and respectful until we get to the dinner room or whatever Liz has prepared for us. You must bow/courtesy to the queen and all relevant members in presence of others until the door to our room closes. Is that understood?".
The group murmured a few yeses and nods.
"I said, is that understood?", he repeated.
They all audibly said yes.
Ophelia smiled, "still got it in you General".
"Gener-", Sherlock exclaimed.
"We're literally here just wait for a few moments and Ophelia could you refrain from blurting out my life history until we get inside".
"Ooo Johnny's calling me Ophelia must be serious".
"I'm not doing this right now, let's go Princess Ophelia".
"Of course, Prince Edward".
"Ophelia!", John shouted. She snickered and exited the car. John pinched Sherlock's thigh to stop him from asking any questions.
Once inside they were greeted with a flustered Gregory Lestrade.
"Mycroft what's going on? Is there some sort of national emergency? Why are we in Buckingham palace?", Greg whispered.
"Not a national emergency, everything will be explained in a moment".
"How is Sherlock here? I thought he was going on a international mission?".
"He was but then he was issued a royal pardon therefore our presence at the palace".
"I still don't understand why I'm here though and why is John in a military suit and why did they make me wear one?".
Their conversation was cut short by a man in a tweed suit approaching them. He gave them all a wide smile and turned to John. "Prince Edward it is wonderful to see you again. You've changed a lot".
"Well I'm not nineteen anymore, Fredrick", he laughed and the man smiled at him. "It is good to see you too, I'm sorry we wasn't acquainted on my last visit".
"Not a problem Sir, I'm aware of your situation. Speaking of, shall I take you to your room?".
"Is Her Majesty ready for us?", he asked politely as Greg whispered panic to Mycroft.
"Mycroft what's going on?".
Mycroft shushed him and made him pay attention to the conversation. They all stood patiently, listening to the conversation, Mycroft was aware he wasn't the one with the most power. It unnerved him to not be in control. Instead tiny little tea drinking John Watson was in charge.
"Her Majesty has been awaiting your arrival since Princess Ophelia left this morning, she's quite excited to see you".
"Is she aware of my guests? I informed Princess Ophelia on the number of guests that I'll bringing with me".
"Her Majesty is aware of her guests. She has already been aquatinted with Mr. Holmes", he gestured to Mycroft, "and she is aware of Sherlock Holmes due to the recent orders you have given. She has not been aquatinted with your other guests however she is pleased to host them as you're the one that's bringing them. She holds all of your friends in high respect, Sir Edward".
John smiled but it didn't reach his eyes.
"Oh sorry, Sir. These are your friends? I was debriefed shortly but I didn't catch the relationships. Sorry for disrespecting your Sir".
"Not a problem Fredrick, pardon my manners. Let me introduce you".
"This is Consulting Detective Sherlock Holmes, my partner". They shook hands.
"This is Mycroft Holmes I'm sure you know who he is". They shook hands.
"This is Anna, Mycroft Holmes' PA. She's a close family friend". Anna smiled at that and shook Fredrick's hand.
"And this is Detective Inspector Gregory Lestrade although he prefers Greg. Close family friend and Mycroft Holmes' Husband". They shook hands.
"Pleasure to meet you all, you all seem like lovely people. Although I realise now, Prince Edward will have to reintroduce everyone to Her Majesty. I apologise for the inconvenience, I'm afraid I've allowed my emotions to cloud my judgment upon your arrival. It is just splendid to see and greet you Sir. Will you be returning to Royal duties now?".
"No need to apologise Fredrick, honestly. I understand my arrival is last minute hence your clouded judgment to your duties. I will not file a report if that's what you're concerned about. As for my royal duties I'm not sure on that yet, however I'm sure you'll be told if the matter on that changes".
"Thank you, Sir. I always have liked you. Would you like me to escort you and your guests to the room?".
"You know me, Fredrick. I'll be alright, I know this place like the back of my hand".
"Of course, Sir".
"Will Simon and Jeffrey be at the doors?"
"Always, Sir".
"Excellent. I believe I will be okay getting there on my own, if anything happens my partner and I will probably be able to knock them out".
Sherlock stifled a laugh.
"I don't doubt that Sir. Given your past career and the one you hold now I'm sure you could take us all out. I read your blog, Sir. You're an excellent writer".
"Thank you, Fredrick. My partner doesn't think so. He thinks I romanticises it too much".
Sherlock stifled another laugh.
"You were always a romantic, Sir. I did watch you grow up".
"That you did. It has been wonderful to catch up with you, Fredrick but I can hear how impatient everyone behind me is getting. They have several questions, so if you don't mind we will be along our way now".
"Sir, they don't know? I'm sorry for revealing your name, I'll give in my resignation papers now", Fredrick turns to leave.
"No, no Fredrick. It's okay, they know kind of. I'm going to tell them now, that's why I'm meeting with Her Majesty".
"Oh, excellent. I'll let you be on your way, I'll alert Simon and Jeffrey now".
"Thank you, Fredrick", he puts his hand out for him.
"It was wonderful to see you again Prince Edward", he shakes his hand and leaves.
The others stand awkwardly in silence and John turns around to face them. "I'm sorry I was speaking to him for so long, he was my my butler growing up. I haven't seen him in a while".
"John what's going on?", Greg asks. "Are we breaking into Buckingham Palace? Prince Edward?"
John smiles, "I'm sorry they didn't catch you up to speed. I am Prince Edward, son of Her Majesty who we are going to meet in a moment. My sister is Princess Ophelia who I can only assume is with mother right now. Given my status I managed to get Sherlock a royal pardon for the incident that happened. I have a lot of secrets-".
"A lot? You're a fucking Prince!", Greg gaped.
"I have secrets within reason, you are all here because I trust you and it is now time to share my secrets with you. This is not an undercover mission, Greg. This is real life. I am a Prince among many other titles that I'll tell you about in a few moments. I understand this is a lot to take in guys and I apologise. So let's go now".
John walks off leading the pack, the others trail behind him in a formal brisk walk. Sherlock jogs to catch up with John.
"Do you think you'll take on your royal duties again?", Sherlock whispers.
"I doubt it. It'll affect our work, people will use it as a weak spot for blackmailing and things like that".
"Oh you're right. That's why you dropped your titles, right? It affected the work you did, most likely MI6".
"My clever detective", John beamed and squeezed his arm, "your mind palace is a wreck right now isn't it?".
"Yes, it's been very hard to not talk".
"Thank you, I appreciate it".
"No problem. You are John Watson though? You're not an undercover agent? That's one of the theories I have".
"No you sod, the life I have with you is real. The work I did before, I don't do that anymore. I'm not going to leave you, shouldn't I be the one worried about you leaving?"
"John?", Mycroft called.
John stopped and turned around, "Yes, Mycroft?".
"Permission to fill Gregory in".
"Of course but we're almost there now", he resumed walking.
"Do we have to call you Prince Edward or Sir in front of the Queen?", Greg called. John chuckled, "No, of course not. John is apart of my legal name so please continue using it. As for the titles it depends on the situation".
"How many titles do you have?", Anna asked.
"A lot", he chuckled.
They turned the corner and was met with a big double door guarded by two of the queens red and black soldiers. The team stood back whilst John approached them. He saluted them and they saluted back, "permission for Simon and Jeffrey, guards of Her Majesty to speak. You may remove your headgear for the duration of the conversation. Permission is now granted". The two men simultaneously removed their hats and saluted again, "Sir, yes, Sir", they chanted.
"It's a privilege to see you two again".
"It's been far too long, General", Simon said.
"On which business are you here upon, General?", Jeffrey asked.
"You know why I'm here, Jeffrey".
"And you know I am obligated to ask you", Jeffrey snapped back. John shot him a look and if looks could kill he'd be dead.
"Apologies, General John Watson. Her Majesty is waiting for you. May I take you and your guests bags and personal items", Jeffrey said.
"Same old, same old Jeffrey. Not sure how you put up with him Simon".
"I'm not sure either, General", Simon smiled.
"You two were given a brief on this arrangement, correct?"
"Yes, Sir", they both said.
"You are aware of the pretence behind my presence?", John commanded.
"Yes, Sir", they both said.
"You are aware of the pretences behind my guests presences?".
"Yes, Sir".
"You are aware of who the people are behind me?".
"Yes, Sir".
"Do you understand my connection to Her Majesty?".
"Yes, Sir".
"What is my connection to Her Majesty, Jeffrey?".
Jeffrey was visibly startled, "You are Prince Edward, Son of Her Majesty".
"Do you understand why your past comment was inappropriate?".
"Yes, Sir. I apologise, Sir. It will not happen again, Sir".
"I should think not Jeffrey. Permission to speak voided, return to duty. That's an order."
Jeffrey clicked his heels and resumed to a parade rest in silence.
"It's like being on the field again", Simon smiled. John laughed, "Oh how I miss it".
"I heard you're chasing criminals around London with Sherlock Holmes that's got to be something right?".
John laughed again, "Yes that's correct, he's also my partner. I don't command though he's the one bossing me about".
"Is that right, Mr. Holmes?", Simon smirked. Sherlock smirked back. "You can talk you know", John said.
Greg let out a gasp, "Yeah were really going to talk whilst you go general mode. You were a general? You are a general? I'm so confused?".
"Okay sorry I've been talking too much let's just go in now", he turned to Simon. "Permission to speak voided, return to duty". Simon gave him a nod a return to his stoic soldier mode. John took a deep breath in and turned around to his friends. "Right so you're about to meet the Queen. She is my mother so feel free to speak freely only until formalities have been done. Although she prefers informal talks please show her respect she is the bloody Queen you know. You may engage in conversation with her whilst deemed necessary. Is that understood?".
There was a chorus of yeses.
"Right then, let's go".
Simon and Jeffrey opened the door for them and was greeted with Ophelia. "I heard you bullying Jeffrey", she said cheerily. John shrugged his shoulders, "he had it coming".
"Some things never change do they?", she said.
Through another set of doors a small fragile lady comes through. She's wearing a pastel pink suit and her hair is blonde. Sherlock analyses her and cross references to pictures of John in his mind palace. Several striking resemblances how he never made the connection before is beyond him. Well he never really had the reason to think that John's mother was the Queen of England so that's probably why.
She stops are stares at John then a wide smile breaks her face, "Don't just stand there my darling boy", she says with affection. They meet in the middle and John is enveloped in a warm hug. "I've missed you dearly, Edward".
"I've missed you too, Mother", he says kindly. They break from the embrace and she caresses his cheek, "Oh, Edward you're so handsome. I've seen pictures but seeing you right now you look really well".
John blushes furiously.
"Don't be coy, young man. I'm surprised nobody has snatched you up yet", she playfully slaps his cheek then removes her hand.
"Actually mother somebody has, this is my partner Consulting Detective Sherlock Holmes", he links her arm and brings her over to the group and gestures to Sherlock. Sherlock bows, "It's an honour to meet you, Your Majesty".
"You were the one who helped with the Adler case, correct?", she asked.
"Yes, Your Majesty", Sherlock said calmly.
"The one who entered the palace in nothing but a sheet".
Mycroft stifled a snicker.
"Yes, that would be me, Your Majesty", he said with several hints of concern in his voice. Not only was this woman the Queen of England but she was his partners mother. She turned to John who was still holding onto her keeping her upright. "Do you plan on marrying him?", she asked. John's cheeks blushes and the redness reached his ears. His eyes darted to Sherlock with visible panic and the detective shot the panic right back at him. Neither of them had spoken about marriage, they had got together after Sherlock returned from the fall.
"Edward", the Queen commanded.
John cleared his throat and turned to his mother. "Yes, I plan on marrying him". She beamed at him, "Good, you picked a fine man Edward. Now come along I can only stay standing for so long". They walked over the table and took their seats. The Queen obviously at the head of the table, John to the left of her with Sherlock beside John. Greg sat opposite Sherlock in between Anna and Mycroft. Mycroft on the right of the Queen.
"Mr. Holmes it's wonderful to see you again. I'm glad this meeting is under informal circumstances and not the threat of an international crisis", she smiled.
"As am I, Your Majesty".
"Oh please, call me Elizabeth. Edward did you not tell them how I despise the formalities of my role as Queen".
"I did but you must remember you have some standard to live up to Liz".
"Liz. Please just call me mother, Edward", she sighed.
"Please just call me John", he snapped back.
Mycroft couldn't quite believe what he was witnessing. Jumper wearing John Watson was arguing with the Queen, he was still trying to wrap his head around it all.
"You never did like the name Edward did you?"
"I prefer John. This is a family function so if you could refer to me as John I will refer to you as mother", he said with some agitation.
"Very well, John".
"Thank you, mother".
"What is your full name?", Anna asked quietly.
"Oh, Anna it's wonderful to see you again. I always assumed you and Mycroft would be the ones to get married", she turns to Greg, "it's nice to meet you Detective Inspector".
Greg fumbled for his words, "I- it's an honour to meet you, Your Majesty".
"Please, call me Elizabeth, all of you. However only in family gatherings like this".
Greg nodded.
"I'm very grateful for the work you do at Scotland Yard, you're a fine Detective Inspector", the Queen said.
"Thank you, Elizabeth".
She smiled at him.
"Gregory is also my husband, Elizabeth", Mycroft stated.
"Oh that's wonderful", she said with glee.
Sherlock squeezed Johns thigh indicated the need for answers.
"Mother if I may answer Anna's question".
"Of course, John. You all have a lot of catching up to do so I'm going to join Ophelia in the drawing room. Snacks and drink will be arriving shortly and dinner will be provided once your chat is done".
"Mother you really didn't have to", John whined.
"Of course I did, I haven't seen my little Prince in a while. Of course a dinner is in order, especially because you brought your family. What is your connection with Gregory by the way? That didn't seem clear".
Greg wriggled in his seat and Mycroft placed a hand on his knee to comfort him.
"Greg and I met on a crime scene because of Sherlock and over the years we've formed a close friendship. He's a family friend, like a brother".
Greg smiled at that.
"Well you've certainly picked a good group of people, John".
"Thank you, Mother. Now may you leave like you said you were going to", John said with a hint of disarray.
"Attitude just like your father. Call Ophelia to help me to the drawing room".
"Olly come bring mother to the drawing room", John bellowed to the double doors. "Is father here?", he asked quietly.
"No, Phillip is at Windsor Castle today but it can be arranged for him to be here if you would like that".
John shook his head in horror, "No, no. One storm at a time please. I have to tell these lot everything".
"Everything?", she questioned.
"We only found out that John was a Royal this morning, thank you for the pardon by the way", Sherlock piped up.
"You do good work young man", she said to Sherlock. "Now, Edward. Who do they know you as?".
John sighed, "Captain John Watson, Fifth Northumberland Fusiliers. As well as a Doctor".
Elizabeth gave him a bad look.
"Elizabeth I did what was needed to be done to not only to protect myself but to protect the royal family. We've been through this before".
Elizabeth sighed, "You're right, I'm sorry. I assume you will not be resuming your royal duties".
John shook his head. "Not publicly, no".
"Privately?", she asked with genuine hope.
"Perhaps. Let's talk about it over dinner. Where is Olly?", he asked with agitation.
"I'm here", she chimed as she strode into the the room.
"Have you been there this whole time?"
"Yep".
"Why didn't you come in when I called you?".
"I enjoy annoying you", she smiled and ruffled his hair. "Come along mother, we will see you all at dinner".
They strode off and bid their goodbyes. As they walked out several waiters placed assorted sweet treats and tea on the table.
"Okay finally my mother is gone and I can answer all of your questions", John said releasing a big breath. "This is going to take awhile so please help yourselves".
They all grabbed something to eat except Sherlock. "Sherlock eat something, here eat this muffin", he placed a blueberry muffin on his plate and took a deep breath.
"So your name..?", Anna prompted.
"Right, of course. My name is Edward John Windsor Watson Partridge".
"Why did you choose John Watson as your name when you changed it?", Mycroft asked as he took a bite of a cookie.
"The other names seemed too pretentious, John Watson was the simplest and most common combination".
"Too right, when Mycroft and I did a search for your file it took us a while to find it", Sherlock said.
"When did you look at my file?"
"First day we met".
"What!?", John exclaimed.
"Oh don't be like that, it's not like he was hiding the fact that he's a fucking Prince. Wait, if you two get married will that make Sherlock a Prince too?".
John sighed, "Yes in a way but not to the public eye. It would damage our line of work".
"Speaking of, I'm quite impressed Dr. Watson that you hid your file so well", Mycroft said cunningly.
John abruptly stood up and pushed his hands into the table, "Let me make something clear, Mycroft Holmes. I am the one in control, I outrank all of you in regards to everything. When you find out who I am you will realise who you're dealing with Mr.Holmes. You and I have crossed paths many times in the past. I'm telling you all of this information in strictest confidence. I trust you Mycroft Holmes as I trust the rest of you here. The information you're about to hear will remain in the confinements of this room unless I say you're allowed to speak freely about it outside or if I bring it up. Do I make myself clear?", John commanded with upmost authority that you could see even Mycroft Holmes was spooked by it. He nodded in agreement. "I said, Mr. Holmes do I make myself clear?", he hissed.
"Yes. I apologise, Dr. Watson", he cleared his throat. John sat back down in his chair, "Right, I won't have threaten the rest of you personally will, I?".
They all shook their heads.
"No need to be scared, you can talk guys", John said, he took a sip of his tea as if he didn't just scream at the British government in Buckingham Palace.
"Are you okay, John?", Sherlock asked quietly.
John sighed, "It's just I've never told anyone this out loud. If the information gets out I will have you four to blame and by blame I mean kill".
"I- who are you John?", Greg stammered.
"I trust you all that's why I brought you here. I can't run from my life forever. If my identity now John Watson is compromised I will be obligated to kill you all and return to my old life. I love my life right now, I love you all. I trust you all okay? I just have to put all he cards on the table".
"We understand, John", Mycroft said.
"So, who are you?", Anna asked.
"I was born into the royal family as Prince Edward John Windsor Watson Partridge. I lived here in Buckingham Palace until I was twenty. During my life here it was pretty normal for a royal kid except the fact that I wasn't allowed in the public eye", John took a sip of tea.
"Why was that?", Anna asked.
"He was an accident. I remember hearing the story when I was starting out. The Queen had become pregnant accidentally, it wasn't planned at all so there were orders from high places to have the child aborted. Except she didn't want to, the baby was a royal and she wanted to keep it. I heard it was quite hard to cover up your birth from the public", Mycroft stated.
"It was very difficult. I didn't know about the public and the media until I was 5 when I started private school. I was told to not tell them who my mother was, so I didn't. Despite that I led a very good childhood. I made friends etc etc. Is there anything about my childhood you'd like to know before I move on to the next part because most of it is quite boring".
"Did you have any sexual partners?", Sherlock asked. Mycroft snickered and Greg slapped his leg. "I didn't have any sexual relations until I went to the army. I lost my virginity at 21 if that's what you're all wondering", John rolled his eyes.
"Oh no, John. Brother mine is the only one wondering", Mycroft smirked and earned another slap from Greg.
"I just discovered my partner is the fucking son of the Queen of England I think I get to know when he lost his virginity", he scoffed. "This is why you never told me any childhood stories with peoples names or why anything about you and Harry is from adult life. The clues were there I just didn't look", Sherlock sighed.
"You had no reason to look. I am sorry Sherlock, I'll tell you everything you want to know and at the end of it I'll understand if you want to leave me".
Sherlock turned and clasped both of John's hands and placed them in his lap. "I don't think I could walk away from you again John, not when I have you like this. I am inexplicably in love with you, John Watson".
John's eyes started watering and a single tear rolled down his cheek. "I've done bad things Sherlock. Really bad things, I'm not sure if you'll still love me after this".
Sherlock gently wiped away the tear on his cheek. "I-I think I will John. You said you're John Watson. The John Watson I fell in love with likes jumpers, tea and gets off from solving crimes. That's you?", he asked softly.
"Yes, that's me", John sniffled.
"Then I believe I'll still be in love with you afterwards. Besides it seems like you got up to a lot of dangerous things. I love danger.", Sherlock said coyly. John gave him a watery smile, "Thank you Sherlock", he said quietly. The detective brought the doctors forehead to his lips and he rested it there for a few moments, "I love you, Sherlock", John muffled. Sherlock smiled atop his head, "I love you too, John". He pulled back and smiled at him. John wiped his tears away and moved to the head of the table where the Queen was sitting.
"I apologise for that", John says clearing his throat. "Sherlock move along so Anna can see me clearer. It's better if I sit at the front of the table".
They shuffled along. "John, no need to apologise by the way. I think I speak on behalf of everyone when I say that we love and care about you mate, thanks for trusting us with what you're about to tell us. Frankly tell us as soon as possible because I am fucking dying to know", Greg said grinning. John chuckled at that and regained his composure. "Right so where were we?"
"Questions about your childhood", Anna stated.
"Right, of course. So any more questions on that?", John asked, he shuffled his tea and biscuits over and took a bite of the biscuit.
"Could we move on to your time in the army?", Mycroft asked.
"No, I want to know about his childhood", Sherlock whined.
"I'll tell you at home darling, they're all harmless stories".
Sherlock blushed at the endearment and Mycroft erupted into laughter. "Darling? Oh seriously Sherlock you've gone soft", he mocked.
"Fuck off Mycroft. You're acting as if you Greg doesn't call you sweetheart", he sneered and that shut him up but then led Greg to erupt. "So you do know my name?"
"Of course I know your name", Sherlock scoffed.
"Then why do you always call me the wrong name?", he shot back.
Sherlock shrugged his shoulders, "I enjoy annoying you, Graham", he smiled at him and Greg laughed. "You utter bastard". He shook his head in defeat, "Sorry, go ahead John".
"So I joined the army when I was 20, usually a royal joins the army when he is 21 but I had already finished medical school so they put me on early", John said.
"When you joined the army you joined as John Watson", Anna stated.
"Correct. I was stuck on the idea of joining the army from young because of all the soldiers I saw around the palace so my father-"
"Prince Phillip", Greg interjected and grinned.
John laughed, "Yes my father Prince Phillip taught me military training from a young age".
"How young?", Anna inquired.
"Six, seven perhaps?".
"Prince Phillip started training you at six?", Greg gasped. John nodded. "What type of training?" Mycroft asked.
"From throwing ninja stars to shooting a gun. Fighting techniques, outdoor survival. I would train everyday with him".
"So you must be good then. I'm familiar with Prince Phillips work, he was a crack shot", Mycroft said.
"How you know that I have no clue but yes I'm really fucking good. I was already phenomenal when I joined the forces and as I progressed up the ranks I just got better and better".
"Would you go through the ranks and explain how you progressed to each one?", Anna asked.
"Are you taking notes or something?", John asked.
"I- no of course not Dr.Watson. I work for Mycroft Holmes and the fact that your data slipped through the cracks astounds me. I am merely interested", she stammered.
"Anna is right, this has never happened before. I must admit John, I'm afraid as to who you are", Mycroft said.
"I'm afraid too. Also Anna please call me John", he cleared his throat. "Right so I joined the army as an army doctor as I got my phd from university in medicine. I didn't go out into the field or even shoot a gun in Afghanistan until one day our medical tent got broken into. I had just finished stitching up a soldier when I heard gunfire. Automatically I grabbed the soldiers gun from his waistband and couched behind the counter top. Long story short I took out six men, enemies on my own. After that I was promoted to a private where I went out on the field. I was still a doctor I just helped out in the field instead", John said. "Give me a moment" He rang a tiny bell on the table and Fredrick appeared from the double doors.
"Prince Edward, how may I assist you?", Fredrick asked, standing beside John.
"May we have more tea and would you retrieve alpha-tango-six-seven-bravo-nine?", John commanded.
"Would you like me to produce several copies for you and your guests?"
"Yes, please".
"Everything should arrive in the next ten minutes, Sir"
"Thank you, Fredrick. You are dismissed", John smiled at him then Fredrick left.
"So you just get to boss people around?", Greg asked grinning. "Well he's my butler and it's his job so in a way yes, I do try to be respectful though".
"What about Jeffrey? You wasn't respectful to him", Anna said.
"Ah well he bloody had it coming, he wasn't nice to me when I was younger".
"Fredrick is going to retrieve your file correct?", Mycroft asked cooly. John nodded, "correct. I thought I'd just go over the main parts then allow you to read my real file then answer any questions you have. Does that sound okay?", he asked.
"Whichever way you think is best, I just want to hear the crazy shit you've done", Greg smirked. John looked to Sherlock and could see him almost bursting, he placed a gentle hand on his shoulder and squeezed, "Okay okay, darling. Tell me what you think you know about me". Sherlock let out a big breath, "You were MI6. You had an undercover name that's why you've crossed paths with Mycroft. You were the best of the best or you still are because the soldiers referred to you as General. Am I right?", Sherlock said quickly. John smiled at him, "Of course you're right".
"You were MI6? I didn't even think MI6 existed", Greg exclaimed. "How did you become MI6?", Anna asked. "Well first I progressed to General by coming out of several suicide missions alive. In my time at Afghanistan I completed sixteen suicide missions. From there I was handpicked to join MI6", John said.
"Sixteen suicide missions?", Greg said astounded.
"Yep. Those were only the ones in Afghanistan, I've done a lot more. My file will have the exact number".
"You're insane", Greg smirked.
"This is why your army mates call you Mad Doc Watson", Sherlock said.
"Exactly. There was this one time where I knew we were going to get bombed on, we were on our way to infiltrate enemies base. I realised what was going to happen so I sent all my men away back to our base. I stayed and helped civilians follow them when I was sure nobody else was there I told them to drop the bombs", John said.
"You told them to drop the bombs on you?", Greg questioned. "It's better for them to waste equipment so I told them to drop it. They did and I survived obviously. When I got back to camp I sat down in the canteen all bloody and dusty drinking tea. Then I hear the boys cry out in hysterics, they all thought I had died", John smiled at the memory. "Your friends were crying over your supposed death and you were just drinking tea", Greg said.
"Well I like tea, what can I say. Speaking of, here comes our tea". A waiter poured more tea for the guests and left a teapot on the table. Fredrick placed the files in front of John, "Here are the files you requested sir".
"Thank you, is that all?", John asked.
"Sir, Prince Phillip has requested your presence at Windsor Castle".
John buried his face in his hands, rubbed his face and looked up to Fredrick, "I will not be meeting with Prince Phillip today. Once this meeting is adjourned we will be joining Her Majesty and Princess Ophelia for dinner. I will not engage with any other family members until the foreseeable future. Do I make myself clear, Fredrick?", John commanded.
"Very well, I'll pass on the news Prince Edward".
"Thank you. Nobody is to enter this room until I say so. Understood?"
"Understood, Sir. If that is all I will be on my way".
"Dismissed".
Once Fredrick had left Greg asked, "Why don't you want to meet your father?"
"As Mycroft said he was a crackshot, the best of the best but then when I returned from my time undercover I came to the palace for help to gain a secret identity", John started.
"Harry and your mother aren't really your family", Sherlock stated.
"When I got discharged I decided I wanted a civilian life so the people here helped me get a fake family. Harry and her mother were very poor so it was easy to bribe them into this ruse. I managed to hide everything on my file very well. When I discovered who you were, Mycroft Holmes I was shocked. I thought my old life was chasing me again so I did everything I could to hide my past. My father helped me with that but when he found out who I was he cut all ties with me".
"Why would he do that? He's a crackshot", Anna said.
John's nervously rubbed his hands together, "I'm better than a crackshot", he said straining his voice. "My father didn't like to be one upped so we never spoke again".
"Who are you? Let me read your file", Mycroft ordered. John let out a nervous laugh, "Let me just tell you first then you can read everything in between. The proof is all in the file because I know you won't believe me".
John took a big breath in then out, he took off his dress shirt and placed it on the back of his chair then clasped his hands together on the table. Everybody stared at him patiently waiting for him to speak finally he cleared his throat and in the most serious commanding voice all of them had ever heard, he spoke. "Are you familiar with the Zodiac Killers?".
Mycroft's eyes flared in panic for a moment then he composed himself, "I am. I worked indirectly with them over the past decade for several different affairs".
"Who are the Zodiac Killers?", Greg asked seriously.
"The Zodiac Killers are a group of twelve trained assassins. They are the best in the world, ranked one to twelve. Zodiac one is the most skilled assassin in the world", Sherlock recalled.
"How do you know who they are, Sherlock?", Mycroft scoffed.
"Whilst I'm not the British government I have my ways, Mycroft. Obviously I've only heard of them, each Zodiac has a speciality which makes them unique. I haven't been directly in contact with one before", Sherlock said.
"That is where you're wrong", John said calmly.
"Which part?", Sherlock asked dumbfounded.
"You have been directly in contact with one before".
"John, are you saying what we all think you're saying", Anna asked.
Everybody sat stunned watching this feeble little man regain his composure to talk, "I am, Anna".
"This is preposterous, you're telling us you're one of the Zodiac Killers", Mycroft said visibly stunned.
"Yes, that is what I'm telling you", John said calmly but quietly.
"Which one are you?", Sherlock asked gently.
"Mycroft do you recall the Politician Pinnacle in Ukraine?", John asked, ignoring Sherlock's question.
"I was ordered to indirectly hire Zodiac Ghost, the most superior assassin in the world to assassinate the Ukraine government body before they broke the deal with UK. Ghost single handily eliminated thirty Ukrainian Politicians in one night. I have never met Ghost, I'm told that nobody knows who they are and they don't even know of each other. You only hear the whispers through the cracks, Ghost helped me get a promotion after that event. I was never able to thank them", Mycroft said calmly.
John clears his throat, "Well you can thank me now".
Mycroft scrambles out of his seat and starts hyperventilating. "This is insane", he exclaims.
"Mycroft I know, please just calm down and take a seat".
Greg goes over to him and helps him calm down.
"John", Sherlock says softly.
"I- just wait a moment Sherlock".
A few moments later Greg and Mycroft return to their seats.
"I apologise Dr.Watson. I was told that Ghost had died whilst on a mission in Eastern Europe. This all comes as great shock to me", Mycroft says calmly.
"The mission went south and we were going to be caught, I was with Bunny and Dragon. I had to escape without them. It was a risky move but it worked. After that is when I met you, Sherlock. I never anticipated meeting you, Mycroft. I was attempting to have somewhat of a civilian life".
"So you're the most esteemed assassin in the world?", Greg asked in awe.
"Yes, I am. Here is my file that you can look through", he passed his file out to everyone.
"It says here that you have the highest security clearance, how is that if you're no longer serving?", Anna asked as she studied the pages.
"The Zodiac Killers and those in the highest position know that I am alive. In the event of an international crisis I will be called out. That's why my status is still active", he stated.
"Your file is insane, John", Greg gleed.
John squirmed in his seat.
"Hey, hey. John. It's okay, everything's okay", Sherlock soothed, he put his hand on John's clasped hands, his knuckles were turning white from clenching them so hard. He relaxed from the touch.
"Is it really okay, Sherlock?", he sighed.
"Of course, I understand why you lied. Now I know the truth, you're the best assassin in the world-"
"And a fucking Prince", Greg added.
"Exactly. So don't worry, I'm not going to leave you", Sherlock whispered.
"Have I broken you? You're being sentimental", John joked.
"Perhaps but let's not dwell on it. Come on get up", he ushered John to his feet and enveloped him in a hug. John's arms wrapped around his torso and Sherlock's arms came across his shoulders.
"I'm sorry, Sherlock", he muffled into his chest.
"I forgive you, John", he planted a kiss on his head and pulled away.
