 So whose down for Christmas Eve at Baker Street?
What is the purpose of this chat?
Oh hello everyone! Yes of course I'll be coming on Christmas Eve, John. :)
Glad to hear it!
I thought you were supposed to be the detective. I created a group chat to invite our friends for dinner on Christmas Eve, Sherlock.
My brother is in this group chat.
Excellent deduction!
Your sarcasm is abhorrent.
"I created a group chat to invite our friends for dinner". This meaning that Mycroft is your friend, I assure you he is not.
Yes he is! Don't listen to him Mycroft, I know you're lurking there.
Knowing him he probably is.
Also hello everyone!
I'll be there for dinner, John.
Excellent. Thanks.
Should I bring anything?
 Nah, I think we've got it covered. Mrs. H is cooking up a storm.
Oh I have missed her cooking.
I will be in attendance.
Yay! The whole gang will be there.
Oh jolly!
Sarcasm doesn't suit you, brother mine.
Glad to hear your coming, Mycroft.
You can invite Anna if you want.
Who is Anna??
Mycroft's PA.
I thought her name was Anthea?
That's just her "secret identity".
Oh...well it isn't a secret anymore..
What have you done, John?
Hey! I haven't done anything. She told me her real name. Jheez guys.
I wasn't aware of this. I'll speak with her now.
No! Don't get her in trouble.
I assure you she's the one who put herself in trouble by compromising her identity.
How long have you known?
Culverton.
"Cereal" killer guy?
Yeah.
Mycroft it isn't a big deal. We're friends.
Mycroft wouldn't know what those are.
Despite us being slightly frightened by your brother we are his friends.
No need for anyone to be dramatic.
When did she reveal her name to you?
Culverton.
Yes as you said, I was hoping you'd go further.
Detail.
I'd rather not.
Why?
It was a rather personal situation.
You stated we are friends, do friends not talk about personal situations with one another?
I've got to get to work, you two should talk privately though. See you!
Goodbye, Gregory.
Who is Gregory?
Lurking are we, Sherlock?
It is a group chat. I'll say my piece when I wish. Continue your conversation with John.
I'd rather not.
Why?
As I said it was a personal situation, can we just drop it now?
If I were to do anything with that information you would know it, you keep tabs on me.
He keeps tabs you?
He keeps tabs on all of us.
What!???
Molly how you didn't know is beyond me. Don't fret, he's not as scary as he looks.
John Watson did you engage in sexual intercourse with my PA?
What the actual fuck Mycroft??
That's the conclusion you have come to???
How could you even accuse me of doing that?
It's the only logical explanation.
Tell me the reason why she told you her name or I will have to take drastic measures.
Yeah he really isn't scary anyways off to the morgue! See you!!
Mycroft even you know it's foolish to "threaten" John.
This is of the upmost importance, I must know.
Why don't you ask Anna?
Brother mine, of course I have already thought of doing that. She is currently in a meeting.
So, Dr. Watson.
...
...
I am waiting.
You want to know why Anna told me her real name? I'll tell you then. In the morgue at Culverton's hospital I did something so disgustingly shameful. When I did I started having a panic attack and I was crying which led to a full on mental breakdown. I was sitting outside the hospital trying to calm down whilst waiting for somebody to pick me up, then Anna showed up. She helped me calm down and asked me what was wrong and I told her I couldn't tell her because what I did was truly horrid. She told me I could trust her and that there was no judgement because we're friends. I told her that I didn't even know her name. So she told me her name and comforted me whilst I fucking sobbed on the pavement like a child.
But she was there for me despite the inexplicably horrible thing I had done and she listened.
She listened whilst I was upset.
Are you happy now, Mycroft?
I'm going to make my daughter breakfast.
Goodbye.
I already made Watson breakfast. You can bring her down and go take a shower.
Oh, thanks Sherlock. I'll be downstairs in a moment.
: Oh damn I missed John attacking Mycroft.
John are you alright though? Wanna talk about what happened at the hospital?
Oh wait is it that thing you told me in the interrogation room?
Yeah it is.
I'm sorry Mycroft pushed it out of you, that was out of line.
 Don't apologise on behalf of my brother, Graham.
You know my name is Greg.
I wasn't apologising on his behalf, I'm just sorry that John had to bring it up.
Hello! On my lunch break right now.
What happened at the hospital?
Nothing of importance.
It's been dealt with and all is fine now.
Is it?
Of course. More than fine.
Sherlock.
John it's fine.
No it isn't.
It is.
Lestrade do you have any cases?
None of your value, crime rate is low during the holidays.
Dull.
Why can't there be a good murder!?
Boo-hoo people have decided to not kill each other.
Exactly! I need an exciting murder - oh wait that was an attempt at sarcasm.
Just when I think you've grasped the concept of sarcasm you go and do that.
I expect nothing less of you though.
As you should.
/
.
