"No! No, most definitely not! Out of the question! I am far too busy," Sherlock Holmes frowned at his cousin in irritation.
"Sherlock, I assure you, if I could think of anyone else, I wouldn't be here. Mycroft is on some government project and I couldn't even find him. Your mother is in France, our other cousins are travelling in America, and I am utterly out of options," Margaret scowled at him, her grey eyes snapping. She could look just as intimidating as her genius cousin and she knew it. "Besides, I think it will be good for Sonja to spend some time with you."
Sherlock shouted at her, "What part of 'I am busy' do you not understand?! I can't have some useless, empty-headed 
 underfoot! Can't you leave her alone at home? She's eleven, she'll live as long as someone looks in once in a while." He strode around his and John's living room, sifting absently through papers in a desperate attempt to appear as busy as he claimed to be, despite his current lack of cases. He noted grimly that the fact that he was wearing pajamas was not helping his argument.
Margaret hissed at him, "Sherlock! Lower your voice, she's going to hear you! And Sonja's fifteen and she isn't a fish. I don't want to leave her alone. She has a tendency to get absorbed in her writing and forget things. Like eating and leaving the stove on." She shuddered slightly, "Just quit making a fuss and let her stay! She won't be a bother, and I'd even wager that you two will get on quite well."
Sherlock snorted and turned to his bookshelf, pretending to search for a book. Silence reigned as his exceedingly stubborn favorite cousin stood behind him waiting for an answer. He could hear the muffled sound of voices in Mrs. Hudson's apartment downstairs. John, to his great astonishment, had predicted the verbal battle that was about to take place as soon as Margaret and her daughter arrived. As such, he had suggested taking the girl down to meet the landlady. At last, he grunted, "Fine."
He turned to see Margaret grinning at him. He didn't even try to stop her as she pounced on him and hugged him around the middle the way she had when they were children. He had learned over time that Margaret was a bit more clever at arguing that he, but he liked to keep up the pretense. "Thank you so much, Sherlock! I'm so glad I won't have to worry about Sonja while I'm gone," she said, looking up at him.
He lifted an eyebrow, "How long did you say you'd be in…Kansas again?"
Margaret shook her head and said, "Kenya, Sherlock. I'm going there to study the impact poachers have had on the elephant population. I'll be gone about…" She mumbled the last part, then turned to look out the window, "Oh, is that a bookshop? Sonja will be delighted."
"Margaret, I didn't quite catch how long the girl will be here," Sherlock frowned, crossing his arms impatiently. If his deduction was correct, he wasn't going to like her answer.
Margaret looked at him with her best puppy eyes, just the way she had when they were little and she wanted him to play with her. This made Sherlock very nervous. "About six months," she grinned sheepishly at him.
Sherlock tried to gather himself for another tirade, but only managed a growl before he said, "You owe me."
She smiled and reached out to pat his shoulder, "Oh, come on, now. You aren't nearly as angry as you're pretending to be. You'll like her, I'm sure."
Sherlock rolled his eyes and tossed aside the papers he'd been clutching and gesturing wildly, "And what makes you so sure? What if she hates me? What am I supposed to do if she doesn't want to stay here?"
Margaret's smile faded, "Sherlock…could you at least try? You two have more in common than you think. She won't hate you, but she may take a few days to warm up. She…doesn't trust people very easily."
Sherlock studied Margaret thoughtfully, then called up the image of Sonja from when she first arrived. He went over her appearance. Very neat, clearly an organized person. Hair freshly cut, probably her mother's idea, as the girl had pulled it back instead of trying to style it. Eyes studying the room subtly, cautious but curious, very interesting. He stopped as he registered something about her wrist, "Schoolmates?"
Margaret nodded, "I wondered if you'd picked it up. There was an incident a few days ago. One of the other students grabbed her wrist and the bracelet she was wearing made the scratches. I've been suspicious for a while, but she never says anything, so…" She trailed off.
"So you allowed them to torment her," Sherlock said coldly. He realized that this was hardly fair, but the idea struck a nerve. When Margaret flinched, he felt a twinge of remorse. He decided to change the subject…sort of, "Why, if I may ask?"
"She's very bright, Sherlock. If the school did not insist that she remain with her age mates, she would have tested out through high school two years ago. She reminds me of you sometimes, even if her interests are a bit different," Margaret smiled in the direction of the stairs.
Sherlock worked to keep his face stoic, "Well, perhaps if the girl can carry on an intelligent conversation these next few months won't be a total loss. She may even provide a nice change from Mrs. Hudson and John's idle drivel."
Margaret rolled her eyes and grinned, "Her things are in the hall. I have a plane to catch, so I'm going to say goodbye to Sonja, then I'm going. I gave the number to reach me to Mrs. Hudson because I know you. Thank you so much, Sherlock. You are my 
 cousin, you know?" Sherlock couldn't stop a genuine smile as she hugged him once more and headed down the stairs to find her daughter.
Sherlock strode into the flat with an irritated growl, John trailing behind and staggering in the direction of his room. They had been out for more than twenty-four hours and the doctor was feeling every one of them, even if Sherlock seemed unperturbed.
The detective dumped his coat on the floor and flopped dramatically onto the couch, "Why can't I figure it out!?" He stared at the ceiling, steepling his fingers against his lips. Suddenly, he glanced toward the kitchen. His cousin was hunched over something on the table, and she hadn't even flinched when he came bursting in. He smiled slightly at the girl's discipline in whatever field she had chosen. Then he recalled something Margaret had said. "Sonja," he called. She put up a hand to show that she was listening, "Did you eat anytime in the last twenty-four hours?"
Sonja sat up very abruptly, then gave a frustrated cry, "No. Now I have to, though, as you've drawn attention to my appetite." Sherlock jerked his head and settled back into his thoughts, ignoring the sound of Sonja rifling through the cabinets. Suddenly, a scream rent the air, and he hit his feet, looking around for the cause. The girl was standing with her mouth wide open in front of the fridge.
"Ah, yes, I had forgotten about Steven," he said absently, striding over to close the door, "Best keep that shut. Decomposition produces the most ghastly odors."
"Yeah, especially when the person in question has been dead for two weeks," Sonja commented, frowning at the bowl of cereal on the counter, "Should I just go and ask Mrs. Hudson about milk, then?"
Sherlock looked at her sharply, "How did you deduce that he's been dead for two weeks?"
Sonja's clear grey eyes locked with his, "Simple, really. The tissues around the eyes. I did a little research for a short story I wrote around Halloween. A good writer has to have at least some knowledge of a variety of subjects if she wants to be even halfway competent."
Sherlock nodded. Perhaps Margaret was right, "So, you write fiction, then? Never bother with the stuff myself."
To his surprise, Sonja smiled, "That's alright. Mum told me you only really care about things related to your work. I wouldn't expect very many fictional stories to be of much use to a detective, except perhaps in specific instances."
He nodded curtly, then said, "You should probably get milk from Mrs. Hudson. I'll be a murder case for someone else to solve if I let you starve to death."
Sonja picked up her bowl and headed for the stairs, calling over her shoulder, "Yes, I'm sure you would hate to have someone else solve your own murder."
Sherlock smirked and went back to the couch to think. He did not hear Sonja return and sit back down to eat her cereal, once more absorbed in her notes for her newest novel. She was thinking about writing about a detective. After all, she was in an excellent position to do research. She glanced at Sherlock and wondered what he was thinking about. She had only been in his flat for a week and he had been completely preoccupied with a case. She wasn't sure what it was, as she had been at school when he had gotten the call. However, during an episode of writer's block the day before, she had attempted to deduce what he was working on.
She was certain it had something to do with a string of recent murders. First, she had noted a new pile of newspapers by Sherlock's favorite chair, all containing articles on five young girls, their ages ranging from fourteen to seventeen, who had vanished from their homes only to turn up dead hours later. It was odd, something about them piqued her memory but she couldn't figure out what. Second, her cousin had clearly been to the neighborhood where the bodies turned up, as she had noticed a peculiar smell when he swept (she was learning that her cousin rarely just walked) into the flat two days before. She had later recognized it as the scent of a paper factory, and there was one such factory near the neighborhood. Third, he had received a note, care of Mrs. Hudson, the day before, which had sent him and Dr. Watson out for their twenty-four hour absence. She had caught a glimpse of the note, and seen that it was from Anderson, the detective that the newspapers indicated was in charge of the case. Beyond this, however, she had gathered nothing.
Frowning, she turned back to her writing, trying to make the detective character in her story not resemble her cousin too heavily. After all, she did not want to be accused of copying Dr. Watson's blog.
A/N: I do have more chapters of this written, and I'll be posting them soon. Please let me know if you see any grammar problems or typos. I haven't had a lot of time to proofread.
