He knew she was waiting for him. It was his plan to show her the truth because he couldn't keep it from her anymore. She was the important one, the one who he could trust. The most important person in his life, besides John, was her.
Her, he needed.
As he stepped to the edge of the roof, he closed his eyes and felt the cloak move underneath his Belstaff. Before he created the illusion of another him, he smiled. Too long he kept his identity a secret from the world. There was no choice to make. The world, at the time, was not ready to know his secret. It was not ready to see the true him. The man he concealed under the guise of the consulting detective.
After the accident which robbed him of the use of his hands, he needed something to keep him occupied until he was needed. Consulting on cases, provided an outlet, and those in which he knew, somehow were magical, he used his alternate persona. His true self.
Falling towards the ground, the cloak emerged from the illusion he created. Circling his hands in the air, he opened a portal beneath him, a trick he perfected through the years. A trick that allowed him to pass through and enter a mirror world. It was here he learned the art of reflection. Watching with a smile, the double he procured landed on the ground. Moving his right hand once more, he stepped through another portal.
Where she was waiting.
He landed on his feet, allowing the cloak to float behind him. He stepped towards her and smiled, letting her know it was him, even as the disguise fell away to reveal his true persona.
"Sherlock…?" she whispered, unbelieving. Her eyes roaming over his face, which revealed his beard and straightened hair with a touch of grey at the temples. A look he disguised for years. A look he preferred.
He held out his arms. "Actually, it's Strange. Doctor Stephen Strange, as a matter of fact," he confessed, allowing his British accent to falter for a moment.
Molly's eyes widened. She froze in place, afraid to move. Afraid to believe this was real even as he stepped forward, running his fingers through his, now straight hair and cupped her face. She shivered at the touch. A touch which reminded so much of Sherlock, though he never touched her face. Her arms. Her hands, but never her face. Warmth encompassed her being. Sharp tingles pierced her veins. It was him. There was only one man who made her react this way. This was him.
The cloak surrounded them, securing them in their own private sanctuary of sorts. Lowering his head, he placed his lips on hers, and her mouth opened to receive him. Passion flooded them as their mouths roamed over each other with an insistence that urged them further. She moaned into his mouth, his tongue mating with hers, making her knees weaken. She never imagined a kiss would feel this way. She melted into him, forcing her body to remain upright as the kiss carried her to other heights she never dreamed of. Stars exploded behind her eyes. Fireworks sounded in her head. She was floating. She was sure of it, but she refused to open her eyes and find it a dream.
He turned slightly and her hands trailed up to caress his cheek and treaded lightly through his straightened hair. He wanted to smile at her reaction, but it would mean breaking contact. Something he refused to do. Her lips were soft against his. Her taste reminded him of honey and citrus. She was breaking him with a simple kiss, and he didn't want it to end. He never wanted it to end. She was soft against him, and his hands ached to move from her face, but if they did, he would never let her go.
And he had to. This had never been the plan, but plans change.
They touched the ground after what seemed like an eternity. An eternity neither wanted to end. He dropped his hands and backed away, letting the cloak fall behind him. "It's still me, Molly," he stated, breathlessly. His chest heaving up and down at the emotions she withdrew from the kiss which still stung his lips.
Molly staggered a bit when he let go of her and licked her lips, tasting him still. "Sherlock would never kiss me like that," she whispered, after a moment.
He smiled and bowed his head. "Perhaps not, but I'm not Sherlock now," he returned, watching her smile, though confusion played in her eyes.
"How long?" she asked, pulling her lips in her mouth after the question lingered in the air.
"Since before we met," he answered, honestly. "I didn't want anyone to know, until now."
A smile touched her face, and she lowered her eyes. "Only me?"
"Always you," he confirmed, letting his husky British voice go.
A shiver ran through her spine before she forced her feet to move. "You'll always be Sherlock," she replied, holding his eyes.
He allowed her to stop a foot from him and nodded. "Will I ever be more?"
She smiled and lifted her hand. Hesitantly, she touched his newly grown beard. "Perhaps."
With one word hanging in the air, a weight lifted from his shoulders. "I should leave."
She nodded but didn't move. She was still mesmerized by the change in him. This…Dr. Strange was different than her Sherlock. The man she loved for so long. Could he really be the same? His eyes were the same. The tender expression she saw so rarely was the same as she gazed into his eyes. She could not mistake it. He only shared it with her. Yes, he was the same. The same man in her eyes. To others, he never showed his tender side, but to her. Only to her.
The cloak lifted and pulled him forward until she was in his arms, holding her close to him.
The cloak may like him, but it also liked her.
"I think it likes you," he whispered, huskily, kissing the top of her head.
She laughed and wrapped her arms around him. "I think I like it too."
He smiled. "I wish you could come with me, Molly," he whispered, feeling the cloak surround them once more, securing her to his body.
She closed her eyes and held him tighter, refusing to let him go. She raised her head only to gaze into his soft bluish-green eyes and smiled. "You could stay," she confessed, searching his eyes. "No one would know you," she added, and he smiled, with a hum.
"That's…diabolical."
She laughed at his quizzical expression. "Maybe so, but no one would know, and…" she trailed off with a blush tinging her cheeks.
He quirked a brow, a smirk playing on his lips. "And?" he asked, his American voice lowering an octave, giving the same effect as Sherlock's baritone.
She gasped, burying her enflamed face against his chest. He chuckled, rubbing her back.
"I would enjoy nothing more, but what of Sherlock?"
"You are Sherlock," she whispered, raising her head.
He smiled, gravely. "Not anymore, I'm merely Dr. Stephen Strange, Master of the Mystic Arts, former surgeon, now."
She sighed, touching his face with cool hands, stroking the beard she was growing to enjoy. "You are one and the same to me."
"It would allow me to stay close by," he murmured, just as the cloak jerked around him. "Really?" he inquired with mild annoyance.
Molly giggled, stroking the cloak with a tender caress. "I think he agrees."
Strange rolled his eyes and shook his head. "I can't believe this."
"Well, what did you expect when you kissed me? That I was going to allow you to leave without a fight?"
He smiled, leaning down and brushed his lips over hers once more. "Actually, that was exactly what I was thinking."
She smiled against his lips and encircled his neck, her body pressing against his once more. They parted after a moment and he groaned. "You drive a hard bargain, Molly Hooper."
"I know," she agreed with a cheeky grin.
He chuckled and with a wave of his hands, opened a portal and escorted his newfound love through towards whatever and wherever their destinies carried them.
