Sherlocks POV
I guess its my fault this time
I used to think that it was so important to be right
so I didn't call you
Say "I'm sorry"
You wouldn't have answered
The damage was done
I should give you up
Eight agonizing months have passed in the blink of an eye and I was still on the run trying to dismantle the organization that Moriarty left behind, for once I'm not too terribly far from home: Calais France to be more precise. The night is cool as I stand on the beach facing the Straight of Dover and more importantly towards home, my Belstaff has its trademarked turned up collar to attempt to keep the cold out. Its nights like these when I cannot help but to think about you, many times I have held my cell phone and debated calling you just to tell you I am alive and that I would come home to you. I know I can't and the thought of you suffering these many months since my so-called death hurts worse than any careless near overdose I have ever endured in my past. Would you answer right now if I were to call you just to hear your voice for a few seconds, Would I apologize for what I have done even though it was to save you? I am almost petrified at the prospect, I think I know that you would not have answered not after the damage I left you with, perhaps it is best that I try to move on. After all you have now haven't you John.
I heard you met someone else
I ask our friends about you
'Cause I just can't help myself
I push down the feeling
That I'm breaking
And smile when they tell me
It's not going to last
I just want you back
Mycroft and Molly have informed me that you have recently started seeing a nurse that you work with; Mary is her name if I remember correctly. John I can't help but to keep up with you, it helps me feel closer to you in a way even if it means I have to ask Mycroft for help in that area. To be honest hearing that you have started seeing her has shattered what was left of my already fragile glass heart, the one I refused to let anyone see and now I fear it may be too late. Mycroft and Molly swear this 
 between you and Mary will not last and that it is just another short-lived fling. I couldn't help my small smile when I heard that, but the pain still engulfed me. I can feel myself breaking apart with every breath and gasping for air at the intense burning in my chest. If this is what it is like to care for another then I don't want to feel this any longer, and yet more than anything in this world I would love to come home right now and take you back to Baker Street.
Are you lonely?
I get lonely too
Do you miss me?
Lately I've been missing you
Are you happy
Like I'm trying to be?
Have you moved on
Or do you ever think of me?
John have you been lonely all this time that I have been away, because every second of every minute I have felt the empty void swallowing me, god I wish you were here right now. The loneliness is unbearable almost as bad as the boredom I often complained about between cases. Do you miss me as much as I am missing you right now? Are you happy with her John, if you truly are happy with Mary than I can try to be happy for you but god damn it why is it so hard? I know I sound like some forlorn lovesick girl but I cannot help myself. Please tell me have you completely moved on after everything we had been through together or just maybe is there ever a time you ever think of me because I constantly think about you. The tears welled up in my eyes and silently slip down my cheeks before I let out a choked sob.
'Cause I've hit a standstill a brick wall
I won't admit it
But I just keep collecting regrets
How did I make such a mess of this?
I wasn't ready to love you
Can't say it now though I want to
I have nothing but my pride
It doesn't keep me warm at night
I wasn't ready to show you how I felt while I still could and now while I am so close to home you could not be any farther away from me. So many regrets consume me night and day and I feel like I've come to an insurmountable brick wall that I can no longer get past. I really did make a huge mess out of this and all I want to do is to tell you I love you. I can't tell you know can I? If only I had been ready to say it back then but all I did was hold on so stubbornly to my pride, and now I am left with nothing but an empty hotel room in France. It doesn't keep me warm at night.
Johns POV
I've hit a standstill a brick wall
I won't admit it
But I just keep collecting regrets
How did I make such a mess of this?
'Cause I wasn't ready to love you
Can't say it now though I want to
I have nothing but my pride
It doesn't keep me warm at night
All I can hear is the slight patter of rain on the window as I look out of it, Mary is asleep in the room down the hall and I let a small smile grace my normally sour expression before it is quickly replaced by a frown. Its been eight months since you left me and it seems tonight the weather reflects my dour mood. Everything has come to a standstill since that day you jumped from St. Barts. I regret not being able to reach you in time that horrible day and that I never said how much you really meant to me. I almost feel like I am betraying you with Mary. At the time I still wasn't ready to love you in the way you deserved to be. Its so heartbreaking that now when I am finally ready to tell you you aren't here to even listen to my true feelings. I want to tell you I love you, but you will never truly know it now Sherlock. My stupid stubborn pride and fears to reveal my bisexuality robbed me of the chance to be happy with the one I want. These thoughts don't keep me warm at night.
She doesn't keep me warm at night
