John Watson had just arrived at 221 B Baker Street with a very tired Rosie after a long day together on his day off. He promised to bring a movie for him, Molly and Sherlock to watch for tonight. Sometimes they do this for a bonding activity and before they would pick out one to watch, often either he had seen or just plain uninteresting.
This time, he may have found the one that caught his attention while at the rental kiosk just down the street. The cover looked amazing and the summary on the back made him just want it. A challenge for his best friend, the self proclaimed "World's Only Consulting Detective". They took turns choosing a movie and this time it was his turn.
Rosie had a burst of kid energy to see her uncle Sherlock waiting at the door. Sherlock had a soft spot for his goddaughter and spoiled her immensely. But soon she would start getting sleepy and go downstairs with Mrs. Hudson.
"Got something more recent for tonight, one of those comic book movies that are the rage right now." John says pulling out the DVD. Before now, it was old movies and art films. Sherlock grimaced at the idea, his thing were horror movies and he analyzed the heck out of them.
Molly soon comes over, looking a little tired but ready for some fun. She was always excited for these times. "What did you get?" she asks John, but he keeps it secret. He didn't want to spoil it for Sherlock.
He puts the movie in and it begins to play. Sherlock had a bad habit of giving his own commentary, but not this time. It intrigued him, scrutinizing every little detail and showing a little bit of childhood excitement at times.
John loved it when his best friend showed that human side at times. Doctor Strange was a really good movie, and Molly just gushed at how much the lead actor looked like Sherlock. "Benedict Cumberbatch is practically your twin Sherlock. Are you sure you're not adopted?" They laugh, knowing Molly was just kidding around.
After the movie, Molly asks Sherlock what he thought. "Simply put, I did enjoy the movie, having read some of the comics as a kid. And I did notice the striking similarities between Mr. Cumberbatch and myself. But I have better hair." He runs a hand through his dark, wild curls and breaking out a big grin.
John was shocked at what Sherlock just said. This was a very rare thing to express a sense of humor like this. Him and Molly have to team up and impress him next time, maybe track down a rare obscure movie Sherlock hadn't seen.
