John stumbled into the living room, clearly suffering from an excruciating hangover, white faced and shaking.
"Sherlock", he mumbled. "I seem to have gotten married".
To his surprise he noticed Mycroft sitting in his designated seat and took a little tumble at the sight of him. Mycroft raised his eyebrow in amusement whilst Sherlock smirked. "What do you mean, John?".
John groggily rubbed his face, he was standing in between the two brothers like a little kid confessing to something terrible. "I- this woman Mary. I have pictures on my phone of us at a registry office and we are married now?", he questioned. "I thought that only happened in Vegas".
"And this Mary", Sherlock said distastefully. "Is she your girlfriend?".
"Well she's my wife!", John exclaimed then immediately regretted it. He rubbed his head in discomfort. If he had been in front of anybody else they'd be in hysterics but Mycroft was just playfully smirking - quite evidently amused.
"I know she's your wife", Sherlock explained as though he was speaking to a child. "But was she one of your insipid girlfriends beforehand or did you just pick this Mary up from the pub?".
John thought for a second and Sherlock and Mycroft gave each other an amused look. "Um girlfriend", John finally said. "Definitely girlfriend - god I don't want to be her husband I don't even love her".
"If you don't love her why was she your girlfriend?", Sherlock asked.
John shrugged with his eyes still practically closed, "Dunno. Bored".
Sherlock hummed in agreement. He looked over at Mycroft who hadn't said a word, he was thoroughly enjoying this.
"Sherlock", John whined.
"Yes, John?", he smiled graciously at the sleepy man.
"Help me. What do I do?".
"I'm not sure how you expect me to help you, John".
"I don't want to be this woman's husband", he groaned and plonked himself into Sherlock's lap. He curled himself up so his nose was furrowed into his neck and his knees were bent. Sherlock looked over at Mycroft for help but to his annoyance the man was full on smiling - well biting back a smile.
"Um, John?", he asked awkwardly with his hands hovering over the small body on top of him. John grumbled in response. "What are you doing?".
"Sleeping", he said into his neck.
"On me? Why?", Sherlock asked carefully.
"Don't wanna be her husband", he mumbled.
"So the answer to the question is sleeping on me?", he looked down at the fragile man who was nuzzling in his chest. "Yep", he murmured. Sherlock placed his hands on John which elicited what could only be described as a happy sigh.
"Mycroft", Sherlock said.
"Yes, brother mine", he smiled.
"Annul John's marriage, get rid of this Mary and we will take the next case you give us", he ordered. Mycroft showed a sense of shock for a second then immediately schooled his expression. He nodded, "Very well".
"You agree to those terms?", he said warily.
"Of course. Now I shall take my leave as you have personal matters to attend to", he got up and waved at the scene in front of him. "We will continue our meeting another time".
As Mycroft walked down the stairs he shook his head and thought, 
