Sherlock was in a mood again. He hadn't spoken for days and John was slightly worried. He didn't eat, sleep, talk, anything really. After a week of Sherlock being like this, John decided to go speak to him and figure out what was going on with him.. he had never been this silent.
In Sherlock's head, there was conflict. He had wanted John for a very long time, and this past week had been him deciding on what to do. He couldn't last much more without sinking into some sort of depression, and then not being able to look at John without feeling empty. Out of the corner of his eye he saw John approaching him, and immediately he felt his pulse quicken and his breath shorten.
"Sherlock?"
God, Sherlock thought, he had never really paid attention to John speaking, and hearing him say his name made him shudder and make a pang of need pass through him like a knife.
"Sherlock, are you okay? You haven't been speaking for the last week, you're not eating, sleeping, not doing anything really!"
Sherlock gulped and nodded, turning away. John frowned. He reached out a hand and tried to turn him back, so he could look at him. Sherlock shivered slightly again and shrunk back into the sofa pushing John's hand away. Annoyed, John got up and stomped off a bit, then turning to shout at Sherlock
"You are an ungrateful bastard Sherlock. I come over here, trying to see if you're okay, caring about you, and all you do is turn away?!"
As John stormed off to his room upstairs, Sherlock scolded himself for offending John. He then though about John's words- 'caring,' 'see if you're okay'.. Sherlock couldn't take it anymore. He got up, grabbed is coat and ran out of the flat- John, why John, why was it he had to fall for the one person he couldn't have, why was his life so miserable? He barely noticed as to where his feet were bringing him, rather that a moment later he was gulping down half a litre of alcohol and asking for more-more-more- until he couldn't feel himself anymore.
He got up, rather strongly for a man who had just drunk a whole 6 pints of beer. He started to feel sick, but continued walking until he had reached a small gang of men which were drinking rather heavily as well, and randomly said to one of them- " I KNOW YOU'RE CHEATING ON YOUR WIFE! I'M GOING TO TELL HE..HE.. Her!"
The man at which he was talking to looked at him in rage, got up and swung his arms round and hit Sherlock right in the face. Sherlock felt blood trickling down his face and all of a sudden he ran. He ran, in a whirlwind of emotions, pain and a single word spinning around in his head: John.. John.. he let out a scream, a scream loud enough to wake all of England but silent enough to hurt.
He managed to reach the flat, throw down his coat and reach the kitchen before shouting and making such noise that from two streets away people were complaining.
John rushed down the stairs at the speed of light. He had heard Sherlock going out, and after about half an hour he heard Sherlock coming back, shouting and screaming - and Sherlock wasn't like this. As soon as he reached the ground floor, he saw Sherlock shouting and screaming and froze in shock.
"SHERLOCK HOLMES WHAT DO YOU THINK YOUR'E-"
John stopped dead as Sherlock turned to face him. His face was matted with blood and his nose was probably broken. A strong smell of alcohol wafted to his nose, the pungent odour making John wrinkle his nose.
Sherlock looked so sad, broken and desperate John almost forgot to be annoyed at him. He saw Sherlock wobbling about and decided to help him and talk to him when he wasn't in such a pitiful state. He walked cautiously towards the rather drunken man and tried to speak to him and convince him to go to his room and sleep- strangely, Sherlock accepted his request and dropped into his arms
