Mycroft opens his eyes and is met with Sherlock and John peering over him. John smiles at him. "Hello, Mycroft. How are you feeling now?".
He grunts. "I'm okay". His eyes roam to the small bundle in his arms. "You brought Rosamund".
"Yeah, is that okay?".
"Of course", he replies quickly. John's lips twitch up a little. "You wanna hold her?".
"Um. Yes, please. If that's okay".
"Of course it's okay", John reassures him. He grins at his daughter. "Alright, say hello to Uncle Mycroft", he coos and places her on Mycroft's lap. He shifts in the hospital bed to support her more comfortably. "Uncle Mycroft?". He's honoured but confused.
John shrugs. "I mean yeah. You're family, Mycroft".
"I am?", he says in awe. He brushes a stray hair from the girls face, she giggles.
"It seems taking a blow to the head has made you purposefully obtuse", Sherlock mocks with a small smile. John playfully pushes his shoulder. "Leave my pseudo-brother-in-law alone".
Mycroft gapes. "Pseudo-brother-in-law?". He brings Rosie to his chest. "You two are...". He trails off and leaves the question hanging in the air. Sherlock strums his fingers on the edge of the bed. "We are".
"It's fairly new", John adds quickly. "But this is uh. This is endgame".
"Endgame?", Mycroft says amusedly. "I'm happy for the both you".
"You really think about us getting married?", Sherlock asks quietly whilst Mycroft distracts himself with Rosie. John smiles. "I do. We don't have to but this is it for me. You are it", he stresses.
"You are it for me too". He brings his hands to John's waist. "Can we kiss?".
"You just want to do your brother gets pissed off". He grins and leans up to kiss him. "There you go".
"Brother mine I don't care for your public displays of affection but I am happy for you, no need to be snarky", Mycroft cradles Rosie gently and she coos. "John", he says abruptly.
"Yes, Mycroft?".
"Would you mind taking a picture of Rosamund and I?", he asks timidly and catches the smirk on Sherlock's face. It isn't menacing, just playful. John takes his phone out of his pocket and lifts to take the picture. Mycroft holds Rosie and smiles down at her.
"I'll send you the picture".
"Thank you", Mycroft replies. He looks down at her with such fondness and adoration. "I love her".
John feels his chest warming. "I know you do".
"I'd be honoured to be Uncle Mycroft".
Sherlock steps forward. "She'll be honoured to have you as an uncle. I can already see you doing several background checks on her partners in the future".
John and Mycroft laugh. "Slow down", John says. "She hasn't even started nursery".
"I'll ensure she goes to the best nursery in the area", Mycroft assures. He feels his eyes dropping which is apparently visible. John squeezes his arm. "I know you will". Gently he picks Rosie up. "You should get some more sleep, you'll be discharged in a few hours".
Mycroft sleepily smiles. "Okay".
"See you later, brother".
