Greg, Sherlock and John were enjoying a leisurely stroll down embankment. It was a sunny day in London so the men decided to take a rare day off, with the lull in cases and no other obligations. Their peaceful silence was broken from the sound of a splash below. Instinctively, all men braced themselves against the barrier and looked down.
"What the fuck?", Greg said.
"Hmm. Looks like some idiot fell into the Thames". Sherlock shrugged. Shrieks were heard around the area and crowds started forming. John decided to do something, he took his phone and wallet from his pockets and shoved them at Sherlock. "Here take these".
"What are you doing?", he exclaimed. John hopped over the barrier landing in the Thames.
"The bastards crazy, isn't he?". Greg gawked. "Come on, let's go down". The two of them ran around to the steps that led to the pebbly beach. An ambulance had already been called and was on standby for when the two men hopefully emerged. "Detective Inspector, I didn't realise you got called", a NSY team member said.
"Nah, I didn't. Was just in the area. So what happened?".
"Apparently some big bloke was sitting on the railing and just fell in. Some other geezer jumped in too to save him but the bloke who fell in was quite big".
"You think he's drowned?". Sherlock asked, he kept his eyes on the river. "John went in".
"Dr. Watson?", the man raised his eyebrows. Greg nodded. "There's no way he's gonna be able to get him. The guy was quite big".
"He's such an idiot", Sherlock exclaimed. "Come on, John".
"Why did Dr. Watson jump in?".
Sherlock huffed. "He has some hero-complex. He saw someone in danger and just jumped in to help".
"Oi, give the man some credit. He's saved your ass a good few times". Greg jabbed. "But shit". He sighed. "Where is he?".
The crowd grew a little larger above and the officers were murmuring in the news that John Watson was under water. "Come on, John". Sherlock whispered to himself.
"Over there!", someone in the crowd shouted. A few feet from shore, John emerged from the river with a man four times his size hefted on his shoulder. Astonishingly he swam with the weight on him.
"How the fuck..", Greg mumbled. He and Sherlock ran closer to the shore along with a medic team. "Come on, John", he yelled. John grunted and swung the man into the pebble-shore. "He needs Oxygen now but not a mask", he heaved to the medics.
"What about you Sir?", one of them asked.
"Clothes. A blanket. Please". He sunk to his knees, Sherlock rushed over and tried to ignore the erupt of cheers. "You idiot. What were you thinking?".
"Couldn't. Let him. Die", he coughed.
"Bloody hell, John", Greg grinned. "How the fuck did you carry him?".
John shrugged them stood back up. He grabbed his shirt from behind and pulled it off. "Fuck, I stink".
"Yeah you really do", Greg began but then stopped at the sight of John's chest. "Bloody hell, mate. You're like a Greek God".
"What?". John was puzzled. He started undoing his trousers despite the fact that their were officers and citizens milling about.
"You're so ripped. No wonder why you managed to save the poor bloke". Greg took the clothes from a medic. "Here's some clothes".
"Thanks, mate".
"John". Sherlock murmured.
"Yes?".
"How- even with your body". He waved his hand in the direction of him. "You wouldn't be able to carry him. How did you do that?".
"I'm a swimmer", he said bluntly. "Swam for the nation at one point. Pretty fucking good, guess I just didn't forget and well I am quite fit". He grinned and gestured to his physique.
"Fit doesn't even begin to describe it". Greg smiled.
"Oi, stop it". John pulled on the trousers given to him. "But yeah I'm a swimmer, Sherlock".
"I didn't know. How didn't I know?".
John shrugged. "You never asked and there was never a need for me to tell you".
"Dr. Watson", a nurse called. John picked up the blanket and wrapped it around himself. "Yes?".
"The man is on his way to the hospital. He should make full recovery".
"Excellent". John smiled. "Thanks for telling me".
"No, problem. You really saved his life, a few minutes more and he would have been gone".
John shook his head. "I just did what anyone would have done".
"Oh shut up". Sherlock smirked. "Stop being so modest".
John glared at him.
"He's right". Greg said. "You saved that man's life. You deserve some recognition".
John huffed. "Fine, I saved his life now can you drive me home? I need to shower".
"It'd only be you to save a man's life on his day off". Greg grinned. "Come on, then".
