Sally was not a leaner.
Yes she might not be professional in some ways - bullying Sherlock and John but she pulled her weight in other ways. On crime scenes John noticed that she never leant on the walls of apartments or the street despite how tired she was. So on that Thursday evening when he saw Sally lean against the wall of the apartment he nonchalantly made his way over to her. Sally didn't say anything to him so John took the opportunity to deduce her condition.
"You alright?", he asked as casually as possible. Sally startled at the sound of his voice. "Uh yeah I'm fine. Holmes got anything?".
John shrugged, "Probably". Sally hummed in agreement which was odd, usually she barked a snarky but playful comment. He noticed that she was swaying ever so gently so he took a chance. He took his phone out and pretended to type then he dropped it. Being the Good Samaritan that Sally is, she bent down to pick up his phone but then she fell forward. Anticipating the fall, John caught her quickly and pushed her gently against the wall to sit.
"So I ask again, Sally. You alright?", John said kindly.
"Knew you were up to something", she smiled sadly. "M'fine".
"You're really not. Have you eaten today?", he asked in a hush tone to divert any attention towards them.
"John really. Just a little tired", she attempted to stand up but John just pushed her back down. "Let's just cut the shit okay? I'm a doctor so let's go through the standard examination. Have you eaten today?".
Sally chuckled a little, "Your bedside manner is atrocious Doctor".
"Mmm well when your patient is lying, needs must", he conceded. "So food I'm assuming you haven't eaten".
She shook her head.
"Right", he shifted to take her pulse on her neck then he quickly examined her eyes.
"I'm just going to examine your chest", he murmured. He gently pressed against her chest then made mental notes and quickly came to his conclusion. "Okay up you go", he heaved and lifted her to stand.
"Where we going?", she said dazed.
"Baker Street, we're going to have some lovely sandwiches and cupcakes", he said with a smile as he led them out of the room with Sherlock and the dead body - he didn't even notice anything was amiss.
"Mmm not hungry", she whined but allowed herself to be moved.
"I know you're not hungry", John replied in a tone that said 
That made her stop in her tracks. "John?", she mumbled.
"It's alright, Sally", he said quietly at the doorframe of the building.
"How'd you work that one out then?", she sighed.
"I'm a doctor", John shrugged.
"A bloody good one", she grumbled.
"Where you two going then?", Greg asked on the street. "Everything alright Sal?".
"Just a little under the weather, just gonna take a look at Baker Street", John explained.
"Oh alright then. Sally you shouldn't have come in if you were sick", Greg explained. "Get well soon and see you later John".
"See ya mate", he called back. Once Greg was gone Sally leant into John's hold. "Thanks for not telling 'im".
"No problem, now let's get you to Baker Street. If we get some food in you, you won't collapse".
At Baker Street John made them sandwiches and placed them on the coffee table along with some cupcakes and water. "Dig in", he grinned. Sally took a bottle of water and half a sandwich. She didn't raise it to her mouth till John started eating. "I didn't do it on purpose", Sally said quietly. When John didn't reply she took it as incentive to carry on. "A few weeks ago I forgot to eat breakfast then lunch then dinner", she explained. "I missed the whole day without realising then it just sort of turned into a bunch of days without me realising. I have been eating", she assured him.
"I trust that you have been because if you hadn't you'd have fainted back at the scene", John said.
"At the scene you dropped your phone on purpose", Sally accused.
"I did", John admitted and he took a hefty bite out of his sandwich.
"Thought as much", she sighed.
"What GP are you registered with?", he asked.
"I'm not going to fucking rehab", she grumbled. "I don't have a legit eating disorder, just missed a few meals".
"I wasn't gonna suggest rehab", John said calmly.
"Oh then what?", she asked.
"You get an eating buddy", he shrugged.
"An eating buddy?".
"Yeah, somebody you share meals with. If you eat with somebody else then it's hard to miss meals", he told her.
"I live alone", she said. John thought for a second, taking a swig of his water. "Right", he said. "This may sound silly but I think it could work. Every meal time you send me a selfie with you and your food along with a text about what you're eating and I'll do the same". He took another sip of water. "It can be like a game, whoever sends the text first. So for breakfast, lunch and dinner and whatever snacks in between".
"You think that could work?", she asked.
"Possibly. We won't know till we try".
"And you'd be willing to do that with me?", she asked cautiously.
"Of course", John said as if it were the most simple thing in the world.
"But you don't even like me", Sally raised her voice a little.
"Oh Sally. I do like you, of course I like you. Yeah maybe you can be bit of a dick sometimes", he grinned and she smirked. "But over the years I've grown to care about you and if sending silly selfies of my grub will help you then I'll do it. I know you wouldn't want to discuss this with anyone else right?".
"Yeah you're right", she agreed. "Surprised Holmes didn't deduce it".
"He doesn't really pay attention to people's behaviour in that way, sentiment".
"He pays attention to 
 that way", she argued.
John shook his head playfully. "Speaking of the madman I wonder how long it'll take for him to realise I'm gone".
"Probably a few hours", she grinned.
