John gets the text when he's in the kitchen. The Holmes brothers are sitting in living room, Mycroft has vacated his chair and Sherlock is sat in his respective one. John takes his phone and reads the text.
John grinned at the text.
At that text John pockets his phone and marches over to the brothers. They both look up at his abrupt arrival, they see the fury in his eyes. Mycroft cocks his eyebrow at him. John glares at him. "Should we do this here or would you rather go somewhere else?".
"Excuse me?".
John sighs and rubs his face with his hand. "Greg".
Mycroft's jaw drops for a second. "He told you".
"Obviously he told me". John's voice raises a little higher now. "So should we do this here or somewhere else?".
Mycroft looks over at his brother who looks amused and confused at the situation. "I'm afraid I don't understand what you mean", he tells John and discovers that was the wrong answer. John fake laughs.
"Oh". Mycroft realises. "This is the 'if you hurt him I'll break you' talk".
"Yes this is the 'if you hurt him or I'll break you' talk", John fumed. "If you hurt him I swear to go-"
"John I can assure you th-"
"Mycroft Holmes!", John yells. "You listen to me and you listen to me carefully". Mycroft balls at his tone and sits with his hands gripping into the armchair. "Greg is a good man, one of the best fucking men I know and he's been through so much shit and been fucked over far too many times". John steps closer to his chair. "The man is fucking infatuated with you and too much for your own good so help me god if you break his heart I will break you".
John grabs Mycroft's umbrella that's resting against the arm of the chair, the man flinches at the sudden movement.
"You see your umbrella?", he lifts it up. "I will shove it where the sun doesn't fucking shine if you hurt Greg". He takes a deep breath in. "If you fuck this up I can assure you that you will find nobody else. Greg is the one for you and you fucking treat him like the king he is. He's an extraordinary man, you don't deserve him yet Greg likes you - god knows why. But I cannot stress this enough", John hisses. "Break him and I will break you in ways you didn't even think we're imaginable. I was a solider and I'm a doctor, I can break every single in your body whilst naming them. Do not fucking test me, do you understand?".
Mycroft's eyes widen in terror and his knuckles have turned white.
"Mycroft Holmes, do you understand?", John repeats with a thump of the umbrella. Mycroft eagerly nods and attempts to open his mouth. "Yes", he croaks.
"Good". John places the umbrella down. "Well I'm off to work", he says in a normal tone as if he didn't just scare the British government senseless. He leans over to kiss Sherlock on the forehead. "I'll see you later, don't blow up the flat". He calls as he walks down the stairs.
Sherlock looks at his brother and smirks at him.
"Not a word", Mycroft hisses.
John takes his phone out as he hails a cab.
