Ever since John was young he loved running. He loved how freeing it was and how the blood pumped through his veins.
He preferred long distance running over sprinting, sprinting was just a burst of energy and it was over so quickly. Whereas with long distance running, cross country, it took time and the sense of achievement was there after at the end.
John had phenomenal stamina, ever since he was young. So he joined the school sports team and throughout the years climbed the ranks from representing his school to the borough, city then nation. When he was in his twenties he was training for the London Marathon. His trainer, Gregson was extremely confident that John would make top five. With that in mind John spent his time practicing whenever he could.
When the day came he placed 7th. Not what he would have wanted nor what Gregson predicted but it was a good place nonetheless.
John had always been passionate about running so he felt genuine heartbreak when he had to join the army - cutting his running journey short. Throughout the army John got fitter, he sprinted more than cross country but he was running so that was all that mattered. From time to time he would imagine running the London marathon again but he realised he wouldn't get out of army till his late 30s and by then that wouldn't be an ideal age to run.
Little did he know that he would get shot and invalided home. His first thought when he got shot was 
When he got back to London his second thought was 
Psychosomatic or not he had a limp and there was no way he'd be able to even jog let alone run a marathon. Time went by and John eventually met Sherlock and by miracle the madman cured his limp. The madman cured his limp, he could run again. He could do a lot of things again because of Sherlock. He could laugh till his belly hurt, he could stuff his face with Chinese, watch crap telly and not feel sad about it (he wasn't alone). Above all he could run. He could run again.
With his new found momentum John decided he would start jogging again so he eventually got into a routine of jogging every morning. 5am-8am. Sherlock was the most observant man so if he noticed John was gone between those hours he never voiced it. Perhaps he was trying to work it out or perhaps he didn't care. Or maybe he knew. Regardless, John ran everyday.
A few months into his new routine and living with Sherlock he bumped into his old trainer. A coffee later and they decided that John would start training for the London Marathon and this time he would come top three. John was early 30s but he was fitter than he was in his 20s. The military and chasing after Sherlock had done him some good. John was very defined, he had a six pack and such lean muscles that he was genuinely surprised his shirts stayed on him.
He didn't tell anyone he was training for the marathon. Not even his sister despite the fact she was very supportive of his interest. He thought if he told Sherlock he would judge him and make fun of him for competing in something so juvenile as running. John had managed to keep his hobby and plan a secret for the one and half years that he was training and he was quite proud of himself for doing so. It felt nice to have something he didn't have to share with Sherlock or his friends. That feeling didn't last much longer.
They got called to a Scotland Yard as usual however it wasn't for murder it was for preemptive murder. Somebody was to die at the marathon - several people in fact. They just had to figure out how before it actually happened.
Sherlock and John crammed into the briefing room where Lestrade was at the front presenting.
"Right so the London Marathon is taking place this Saturday we have intel that a man by the name Cobra - code name obviously", Lestrade grumbled. "Is planning on targeting the potential winning runners".
"So this Cobra is planning on killing them?", a member of nsy asked.
"Exactly. The motives are unclear as to why but we know Cobra is planning on killing the best runners. We need to figure out and how and why. London can't afford to shut down the whole event so we need everyone on this alright?", Lestrade looked around at the whole room.
"So what's the plan?", John asked warily.
"First get the list of the best runners obviously", Sherlock replied.
"Already on it, should be emailed to me any sec. I'll put it on the screen. The list is of ten individuals ranked by sporting officials", Lestrade told them.
"Do you know how the sporting officials ranked them?", John asked.
"Uh no. It's an unofficial document. Can you imagine if these people found out they were being ranked?", Greg laughed. John was extremely nervous. He knew his name was going to be on that list. Not only was he about to see himself placed on a ranking system but about twenty people from the MET, including Sherlock, were about to find out his secret.
The list of names appeared.
He was first. He was predicted to win first place at the London Marathon. He couldn't believe it. He was first. They think he's going to win.
He prayed hoped that they wouldn't realise it was him. John Watson was a common enough name.
"Right so these are the names", Greg clapped his hands together. "So our main concern is John Watson". Everyone turned to look at John. Sherlock rolled his eyes. "Obviously not this John Watson. Call him Mr. Watson to avoid confusion".
John sighed in relief that he wasn't caught out but his glee was short lived.
Lestrade went through the rest of the names then circled back to John. "So as Mr. Watson is predicted to win first place we are led to believe he is the number one target".
"What else can you tell us about him?", Sherlock asked. John froze in his spot. During Greg's monologue John had migrated to the back of the room so he wasn't standing beside Sherlock anymore. He was standing by the door, he could easily bolt out. He could easily just leave, slip away before everything unfolded. He wasn't ready for the scrutiny and questions.
Greg fiddled with his computer. "I just need to enter this code and it'll give us some more information like his job where he lives, hospital and therapy notes. Details you know?".
"Good. The way people target victims is within the details of their lives", Sherlock mused.
"Are we just going to look at Mr. Watson?", Donovan asked.
"Well he's the main guy so yeah if we can figure out why he's been targeted then we should be able to figure out the ulterior motive of Cobra. Right, Sherlock?".
"Right", he confirmed.
"Everybody here has clearance to read Mr. Watson's medical and mental history so don't worry about it. Obviously do not go chasing down this man", Lestrade told them. John tensed when the words Greg was saying immediately caught up to him. They couldn't read his therapy notes.
"I just need to type the-"
"Wait!", John shouted. In an instant everyone's eyes turned to John in confusion.
"I-"
"What is it John?", Sherlock asked curiously and the confusion was evident on his face a he looked beside him - John wasn't next to him anymore. John's words caught in his mouth.
"John we need to move along. Wait for what?", Greg sighed. John rushed his way to the front of the room, there was only one thing for this. All eyes were on him and he took a deep breath. "It's me", he said quietly.
Everyone's eyebrows furrowed.
"What?", Sherlock asked.
"John Watson. The guy that's predicted to win the marathon. It's me", he said it so bluntly that his whole body was tensing - he just wanted to dissapear. His reply was met with a lot of gasps and murmurings, he didn't expect Sherlock to laugh.
"You can't be serious John?", he gasped.
"I am very serious", he replied curtly. He turned to Greg. "Greg could you turn the projector off I don't want my life history broadcasting to everyone".
"You're being serious?", Greg was taken aback. John nodded in defeat. "Yes I'm being serious. Please. You can check the file just not in front of everyone. Surely there's some ethics behind this".
"Yeah I- sure", he shook his head then turned off the projector.
"John you're serious?", Sherlock was in shock.
John nodded and directed his answer to the entire room. "I'm serious. I'm running the marathon on Saturday although I didn't bloody know I was predicted first. Like Greg said can you imagine how I felt when I saw that? Mental, I didn't know and I didn't know that I'm being targeted", he sighed. "I don't really want you all to know my life history you know privacy and that?".
Anderson scoffed so hard that everyone turned to look at him. "Come on you can't be serious!? We're meant to believe that you're running the London Marathon and you're predicted to finish first?".
John opened his mouth to reply but was cut off by Sherlock. "I didn't believe it at first but it is evident. Obviously first and foremost John isn't a liar, he wouldn't lie about anything let alone something of this scale".
"Thank you", John replied quietly.
"Second, I went over the information in my mind palace. That is where you've been going every morning. You've been training this past year and half".
"I- yes. You realised?", John cocked his eyebrow.
"I mean I knew you went somewhere I just assumed it was gym because I saw your really small tight shorts whilst doing the wash once". A few snickers were heard, John flushed in embarrassment. "Yeah well I've been training for the marathon".
"Why didn't you tell me?", Sherlock asked sincerely.
"I really don't want to do this here", he waved to the room.
"You might as well", Greg piped in. "Angie sent me the wrong code for the file so I'm waiting on that". Sherlock looked at John expectantly. He sighed. "I was afraid that you would judge me".
"Why would I judge you?", he asked offended.
"Why would you judge him!?", Sally practically yelled. "You're the biggest dick we know. You scrutinise and patronise everyone. Of course he was reluctant to tell you".
"But you're passionate about it", Sherlock reasoned to John.
"I am".
"Then why didn't you tell me? If you're passionate about it then I would automatically care about it".
"I- Sally's right. I was afraid you'd call it dumb or silly. You're not even interested in sports", John replied. "Remember when I told you I was the captain on my rugby team and you said sports is a waste of time and effort and anyone who does is in need of validation".
"I said that?", Sherlock asked quietly.
"It sounds like you", Anderson piped in.
"Shut up, Anderson", Greg sneered.
"Yeah you said that", John shrugged ignoring the little interruption. Sherlock let that sink in for a moment. Everybody was silent watching the interaction and the cogs turning in the detective head. After a few moments Sherlock sighed. "I'm sorry".
"What?".
"I said I'm sorry. I'm sorry you felt you couldn't share something which is clearly extremely important to you, with me. What were you going to do? Go to the marathon alone?".
"I mean, yeah?".
"I- I'm sorry, John", he apologised again.
"The freak just apologised like three times", Donovan. whispered to Anderson.
"I know. What's happening?", he whispered back.
"It's okay, Sherlock". John walked over to him. "It was just my own insecurities don't worry about it". Sherlock looked down at him. "You have to tell me everything okay? I'm your best friend, remember?".
John's lips quirked up. "Yeah you're my best friend".
"Good", he murmured. "Now", he said to the whole room. "Lestrade let's make sure our friend doesn't die, have you got his file?".
"Yep", he confirmed. "One Captain John Watson of the Fifth Northumberland Fusiliers, RAMC. Invalided home 2010, currently lives at 221b Baker Street with a one Sherlock Holmes. Works as a GP and consulting detective, age-"
John abruptly cut him off. "Oi that's enough".
"You're not that old", Greg smirked.
"Yeah well it's not relevant to the case".
"Wait so you're actually the John Watson predicted to win?", Anderson questioned.
"Yes, Anderson", John replied.
"Enough chit chat we need to work out how why and when. Under no circumstances can we allow my blogger to die", Sherlock ordered.
"I'm not going to die", John protested.
"We don't know that yet!", he exclaimed.
"Alright boys let's focus", Lestrade calmed the room. "Gregson I need information on our source. Smith I need information of Cobra and John I need information about how you got into signing up for the marathon. Got it?".
Said people nodded.
"Great, let's save London", Greg grinned.
"Most importantly John", Sherlock added.
 This fic was actually inspired by my one word prompts but it sort of flowed into a longer story that I decided to post on its own. I'm not sure if I'll do another a chapter or not but yeah.
