"What do you want?", John asked the man sitting at the patio table. All tone was lost from his voice. Mycroft nodded to the seat opposite himself. "Have a seat. I believe you haven't had dinner".
"What do you want?", John repeated with his arms coming across his chest. He blinked slowly now trying to fight the tears brimming his eyes. He was so tired, it wasn't even intentional.
"Do take a seat, John. It would be far embarrassing, you collapsing than my actual kidnapping". Mycroft smirked a little. John ran a hand through his long hair - he should really get it cut. After a few moments of contemplation he reluctantly took the seat opposite him. John sneered at the lace tablecloth and the elegant velvet chairs, nevertheless he relished in the comfort.
"How have you been?", Mycroft eased the silence.
John's stomach grumbled in response.
"I've had your favourite dish prepared although I despise fish and chips I believe this style of it is to adequate taste". Mycroft pushed a plate towards John. He grabbed some vinegar and salt then tucked into his food.
"You haven't been to work", Mycroft stated.
"What I do with my time is not your business nor was it ever", John told him. He took another bite of his fish.
"Sherlock said I-"
"No, don't", John interjected. "Just...don't".
Mycroft tucked into his food and they ate in relative silence apart from the clanking of cutlery and chewing of food.
"You've been ignoring Gregory's texts", Mycroft broke the silence.
John hummed as he chewed some chips. He swallowed. "I don't see how that's your problem".
"One would suggest that you shouldn't push people away during times like these", Mycroft said quietly.
John scoffed. "What? Is this a therapy session now, Mycroft?".
"Not at all", he told him. "Sherlock-"
"Mycroft!", John raised his voice. "I don't care what Sherlock said. He's no longer here". He finished the last bit of his fish and stood. "I'm going home now".
"There will be a car waiting for you. I'll see you next week".
"Next week?", John turned around to face him.
"Yes, one shouldn't push people away in times like these".
