"
?"
The detective in question groaned and rolled over on the couch. Just another night he'd fallen asleep there babysitting Rosie. John was on a patient run. Some kid had fallen off the roof and snapped his wrist.
What the bloody hell the kid was doing on the roof was a mystery to even him, but-
"Sher-lock? Uncle Sherlock!"
He fell off the couch and got to his feet, making his way to his goddaughter's bedroom. It was just past midnight: too early for him to have fallen asleep and too late for Rosie to be up.
"Rosie?" he mumbled, flipping on her bedroom light. "What's wrong? Why are you awake?"
Rosie was three and the ultimate combination of Mary's pale and pretty complexion and John's eyes. Her light brown hair was mussed from sleep and her face was streaked with tears. Sherlock cursed himself for not going right away. He moved to sit on her bed as she whined pitifully, "I had a nightmare..."
"Did you?" Sherlock questioned gently. "What was it about?"
"Don't wanna talk about it."
"Ok. We don't have-"
"There was a monster."
He shifted to lay her back down, pulling the blankets back up to her shoulders. He'd met plenty of monsters in his line of work, but he had a feeling they weren't one and the same as the ones Rosie had encountered.
"It had s-seven eyes..." Rosie shuddered. "And 
 on its nose."
Sherlock sighed.
"There's nothing here. You're perfectly fine, Watson."
"That's 'cause it's in 
!" the little one pointed out, pressing her index finger to her temple.
"So it was," Sherlock commented. "It was probably the most scary thing a little thing like you ever saw."
He tapped her shoulder gently, making her smile.
"Dada says 
the most scawy thing he's ever seen," the young Watson informed him. She snuggled down under the blankets and her godfather tucked them around her carefully, smiling.
, John was going to pay for that! Turning his goddaughter against him before she was even a teenager! A small sigh came from the girl as she drifted back to sleep, her hand creeping out to latch onto his own. Great. So 
was where he'd spend the night.
When that kid got hold of something, physically or metaphorically, she didn't let go until 
wanted to. He shifted to lay down beside her, nearly falling off the twin-sized bed. Oh well. He had slept in smaller spaces... He closed his eyes and breathed out, allowing himself to fall asleep.
Somewhere in the haze of sleep, Sherlock heard the door open and, squinting, he saw in the light he hadn't turned off his roommate leaning against the doorframe, a silly grin on his face.
"Cozy, Sherlock?" he noted lightly. Rosie's fingers tightened on his hand in her sleep.
"Shut up, John," Sherlock informed the doctor.
