John strode into The Diogenes Club, dressed to the nines. He was sporting a triple black bespoke suit with his hair styled in 'The Swoop'. John emitted confidence as he walked through the club, he didn't belong there - he didn't even have a membership. Yet the members there didn't give a toss about his presence, which was most likely due to his affiliation with Mycroft.
With Mycroft in mind John made his way to his room without any need of direction. He'd been here dozens of times, all of them unwillingly. It was either Mycroft kidnapped him and brought him here or he had to tag along with Sherlock for 'a case of national importance'.
This time the visit was willingly, John wanted to see Mycroft - he didn't care if he didn't have an appointment. He hoped that his effort of wearing a suit would numb Mycroft's annoyance of appearing unannounced. John hated wearing suits despite the fact he looked quite suave in them.
He quickly fixed his tie, adjusted his collar then knocked on Mycroft's door. The man told him to come in and John graciously entered the room. Mycroft was sitting in one of his red velvet chairs reading the newspaper. He looked up and John caught the second of confusion on his face before the man schooled his expression.
"John", he greeted.
"Mycroft", he replied.
"Take a seat", he gestured to chair across from him. Elegantly, John took the seat and steepled his hands for a moment then rested his hands on his thighs. He was being scrutinised by the Holmes. After a few moments Mycroft cleared his throat and put his paper down. "We do not have anything to discuss, John. How may I help you?".
"You may not have anything to discuss", John pointed out. "I, on the other hand have things to discuss".
Mycroft looked the man up and down and then nodded, "Very well then. I see you've dressed to impress. How can I be of service? I deduce you require a...favour", he said the last word with disgust.
"Well it appears you've deduced wrong, Mycroft. I don't require a favour".
Mycroft's eyebrows shot up then relaxed just as quickly as they flew. "What do you require then?", he asked.
"Nothing", John said simply.
"Nothing?", he strummed his fingers on the arm of his chair whilst glaring at him. John nodded in response. They sat in silence for a while, Mycroft burned the soul out of John by glaring at him - deducing him. John sat there with a small smirk playing on his lips. Then to his surprise he found a small smirk on the others man's lips. "What's funny?", John enquired.
"Is this some kind of joke?", Mycroft said through a degrading smile.
"What do you mean?", he gently leant forward.
"This", Mycroft said slowly, "is a social call".
"Correctly deduced", John replied.
"So is this a joke? You and little Sherlock playing a prank on me?", he said amused.
"What? No? Why would this be a prank?", John questioned. Mycroft took a deep breath in then out. "Dr. Watson. You and I have never had the best relationship. You're aware that I do not have friends", he spat. "Thus the conclusion being you and Sherlock creating this ruse for me to think that you wish to be social with me".
"Mycroft I'm appalled that you think so lowly of yourself", John gasped. "This is a social call".
Mycroft looked the man up and down. "Why?".
John shrugged. "We're friends and I'm worried about you".
"Worried about me?", Mycroft's eyes softened slightly.
John titled his head forward. "I noticed you're not eating and sleeping. You've lost three pounds in four days and don't you dare say it's your diet because you don't need one. Your eye bags are darker hence the lack of sleep".
Mycroft pondered John's deduction. "John", he began softly. "I can see I'm in no position to deny your deductions, they are of course correct. However I'm still astounded that you're here primarily because you're worried about me?".
"You worry about me, right? You can't deny it so I don't see why I can't worry about you". John looked to his right. "Is this water fresh?". Mycroft nodded. John brought the glass to his lips and watched the man before him writhe under his scrutiny.
"You really are worried about me", Mycroft realised.
"Yes so as your doctor I'm prescribing you sleeping pills and as your friend I won't send you to rehab for the eating disorder you have instead I'll help you eat".
"Help me eat?", he questioned.
"Mhm", he put the glass back down. "Are you familiar with what a selfie is?".
Mycroft scrunched his nose. "Yes".
"I propose a project if you will", he waved his hand in the air. "If you decline I will have no choice in my professional opinion than to refer you to an eating disorder specialist".
Mycroft inclined his head. "I'm listening".
"I propose that whenever either us have a meal or snack we simply send each other a selfie to show the other person that we've eaten", he explained. "We can make it a sort of game, whoever sends the picture first wins for breakfast, lunch and dinner".
"This is not a professional technique", Mycroft reasoned. John shook his head slightly and leant forward. "No, this is a friend technique. We don't have to do it if you don't want, obviously I cannot force you to do anything".
"What if I'm at a restaurant, will I need to send a picture then?".
"Yes, although perhaps not a selfie. Just a picture of the food with something recognisable that you're the one eating it", he looked at Mycroft's person. "Like your watch. Make sure the watch is in the photo".
"You're serious about this", he stated.
"I am". John smiled softly at him and took the glass beside him in hand. "Mycroft you're my friend and I care about your well-being".
"I accept those terms", Mycroft confirmed with a small smile. "I will have to dismiss you now as I have a meeting in ten minutes".
"Of course", John abruptly stood. "I apologise for showing up unannounced".
"No worries. Your suit makes up for it, bespoke. Very good taste, John".
"Thank you", he accepted the compliment. "I look forward to seeing your food".
"Likewise", was the reply and John exited the room.
