Hello, all! This is a companion piece to "You have 465 unread messages". It's the in between of the texts, I'm going to try and write it so it's not compulsory for you to read my other work. But I cannot promise that some bits will be a little hazy for you if you're not familiar with the storyline. Anyways hope you enjoy it.
John was awoken by his phone pinging. He groaned and stretched over to check who was texting him this early in the morning.
-
John rubbed his face.
John hit his head on his headboard and sighed.
John looked over at his sleeping daughter and smiled, he decided to create a groupchat with everyone he's close with; Sherlock, Greg, Molly and even Mycroft. If he couldn't have Christmas with his sister he'd have it with his friends. Once he made the group chat he put his phone down and was about to start his day but it pinged. He picked it up to see Sherlock already berating the chat.
John sunk back into his bed and texted with the people he held closest to him. With that in mind he thought about inviting Anna, they were quite close since "the incident". He sent the text and realised his mistake. Mycroft wasn't aware that he knew her real name, his assistants name.
Mycroft sent him a vicious line of texts demanding his knowledge. John grumbled and gave in. He didn't like reliving the moment he attacked his best friend. Once he sent the text he got up to hold his daughter. He checked his phone once more to see that Sherlock had prepared Rosie breakfast already, he smiled a little.
He pocketed his phone in his dressing gown and carried her downstairs. "Morning".
"Good morning, John. Here give me, Rosie. I have a bottle prepared for her. Go shower". Sherlock took hold of her and cradled her in his arms. "So, Christmas Eve at Baker Street?".
"Yeah that's the plan, if that's alright", John replied.
"Yeah it's fine, not sure about inviting Mycroft though".
John ran his hand through his hair. "Yeah well he can sod off at the moment. I'm gonna shower, alright?".
"Go ahead".
John took the quickest shower of his life, he was too put out to enjoy the warm water running down his body. He dried himself and got ready for work. When he entered the kitchen he was met with Sherlock holding his sleeping daughter on his chest. "You look comfy".
Sherlock smiled.
"So what's your plan for today?". John shucked on his jacket.
"I'm just going to look after, Watson". Sherlock looked down at her, his lips twitched up. "Don't worry about me".
"You sure? I don't think Mrs. H would mind looking after her. You can go to the morgue or something".
"No, it's fine. I want to".
John nodded. "Alright. I'm off to work then, I'll see you later".
"See you", Sherlock replied.
John went about his day, patient by patient. He didn't have his normal work attitude to him and well that was down to one British Government. He was pulled out of his musings by the group chat. It seemed as though Greg found the whole shutting down Mycroft hilarious, he smiled a little - it 
fun to berate him.
Molly tried to get information out about the incident but he didn't budge. He hated what he did and wanted as little amount of people to know. John still despised himself for beating Sherlock and what added to his anger was how forgiving he was.
John decided to text him privately to apologise again however pointless it was he still felt the need. He hit his head on the table and had his phone beneath his hands. The conversation with Sherlock brought up some things he never thought he'd tell the man, like how he was suicidal during the fall. John never intended to tell him but of course the man deduced it and decided now was the time to reveal that. John lifted his head from the table and took a deep breath. He and Sherlock needed to be more truthful with one another anyways so he let him know that it was in fact Anderson who saved his life.
Since then John had started being nicer to the man, there was a new found respect for one another even though Anderson didn't know what he did for John. To his surprise Sherlock vowed to try and be nicer to the man too. John laughed at the thought of Sherlock being nice to Anderson, he couldn't imagine it.
With the deep conversation John's stomach grumbled and he realised his whole lunch hour had past. He sighed and pocketed his phone then got on with his day.
