"Are you kidding me!? Molly, you have NO matches left? Not even a lighter?"
Molly blushes sheepishly, not that he would be able to see it. Unfortunately, a large oak tree just decided that it was time to end itself and fall down in the middle of her street...taking down the electrical wires with it. While the power company had been on scene all day, they have yet to be able to turn the lights back on. Not only the lights but the air conditioner too. It's the middle of July and very hot. Granted, frustrations and emotions are running high like their temperatures, or at least Sherlock's are.
"I'm sorry...I must have forgotten to get some when I went shopping. Look...I'm sure they'll have it up and running again soon..."
"I reeeally don't need your optimism right now, Molly!", Sherlock growls annoyedly.
It's nearly 10:00pm and it's pitch dark in her home, and throughout the entire neighborhood. Molly can hear him feeling around so he doesn't fall and making his way back over to the sofa next to her, but not touching. They're both sticky and sweaty at this point. Despite this, she reaches over and feels for his hand until she finds it, brushing her thumb along the top of it silently. She hears him let out a sigh.
"I didn't mean to snap...it's just...it's so hotttt", he whines.
Molly stifles her giggle at his childishness and squeezes his hand a bit. "I know, I'm hot too Sherlock. I'm sorry. It really sucks that Baker Street isn't finished being renovated yet. We could always just go to bed."
After a moment of silence, she pipes up again. "Go to /sleep/, is what I meant!" At that moment she was so glad they were in darkness, as she must have been as red as a tomato.
"Right. I don't think sleeping is ideal, there's no way I can sleep in these conditions! I can barely sleep as it is, /with/ light and air conditioning."
Groaning, she lies her head back against the sofa. "Well then, I don't know how to appease you, Sherlock. You are impossible and childish."
He gasps, offended. "Am nottt."
Molly snorts and laughs, unable to hold it in this time. After a moment, Sherlock joins in, his deep chuckle melding with her light giggle. Suddenly she feels his hand trail up her arm from her hand, over her shoulder, and travel to her cheek. Before she can think, his soft lips are pressed against hers and she gasps softly, eagerly returning the kiss. Sherlock pulls her a bit closer, continuing to snog for what seems like forever before they pull away for air.
"Sh-Sherlock?"
"Yes, Molly?", he answers, his voice a bit deeper, as if she ever believed that was even possible.
"What...uhh...what was that for?", she whispers softly.
"Isn't that what people do after they've said, 'I Love You'?", he questions quietly. "I know it's been months but...I did tell you I meant it. I hadn't really proved it though. I have very bad timing with this stuff, huh?"
"No…it-...it was good, Sherlock. But if it was spur of the moment and stuff, I get it."
"It was, but not in the way you're thinking. I meant it, I liked it, and I plan on doing it again. Hopefully when I can actually see your face though."
Molly smiles to herself and chuckles. "Yeah, I think that would be best. I actually have an idea. Grab my hand."
"Okay...", he takes her hand, and she pulls him gently, making their way slowly and carefully to her back door. "Why are we going in your yard?"
"Shhh, you'll see."
They move into the middle of her lawn and he grins softly, realizing what she meant and feeling nostalgic at the sight. "Wow...Molly...I haven't paid much attention to the little things with how busy my life has been. This actually reminds me of my childhood at Musgrave in the summers. They'd all be twinkling around the fake gravestones. Mycroft and I would see who could collect more, who could get the brightest jar."
Molly beams up at him, then looks at the lawn and the trees, the flashing and sparkling of the hundreds of fireflies flying around, brightening the area beautifully. The sight could have been a photographer's dream. It really is a serene scene seemingly floating around them. "I'm glad it brings up good memories, especially after all the bad recently."
"I can see your face."
"Yeah, so can I", she beams. "Easy on the eyes."
Pulling her down to sit with him in the grass, he captures one in his hands and watches it flicker beautifully like the candle they never lit. Once it flies away from his palm, he leans in and kisses her again, keeping his word. Molly kisses him back tenderly, stroking his cheekbones and fully enjoying it this time, aided by all of her senses this time.
Surrounded by the shimmering lightning bugs, they take their time to enjoy each other's kisses, whether they decide to take it slow, or quicker. It's picturesque and magical for them both as they finally pull away from one another, smiling genuinely before taking in the sight around them once again. Sherlock pops up from where he was previously cross-legged, and Molly raises an eyebrow in question.
"Well, what are you still sitting there for? We've got to find some jars. It may take a bit because your house is very dark, but I assume you know your kitchen better than I do."
"Oh! That's actually a great idea. We can collect a few jars and set them up around the house for light! I'll poke holes in the lids."
"Glad we are on the same page." Moving back into the darkened house, they rummage around and find four mason jars that Molly had stored in her lower cabinet. Using a pen she had in another drawer, she pokes multiple small holes in the lids once they go back to the yard and can see a bit better. For a moment she just watches Sherlock enjoy something so ordinary and simple, and it makes her heart happy. Grabbing one of the jars, she eagerly joins him and laughs when they bump into each other.
This is how it should always be, and how he should always feel. Unfortunately, their lives don't allow for this continuity of glee, but for now, Molly will take comfort in the moment they are in, and the possibilities of where their relationship can go next.
Just like fireflies on a hot summer night, Sherlock and Molly both glow brighter when they are together. Just because the electricity is out, doesn't mean there is a lack of it altogether.
