The familiar sights, sounds, and thoughts of war hit him all at once. The screaming, sobbing, and blood. Always blood. Blood all over the officer beside him, the boy behind him. Blood all over him.
The pain spread from his leg, taking over all of him over time. His stomach felt raw, his hands burnt, and his heart... his heart...
The terror ripped through him producing the most heart-twisting scream he'd ever heard come from anyone much less himself.
And then the noise started to die away, slowly at first, and then all at once. All that remained was a quiet murmuring and hands touching him. A hospital he decided, but the voice was not quite a nurse's and the hands 
 weren't.
"John..." the voice whispered. "John, calm down. You're not there. You're here... moments away from waking Mrs. Hudson."
Nothing was making much sense. The voice sounded familiar, as did the name: Mrs. Hudson, but he didn't know where it was from.
"You're not going to want to do that. Calm down, John. You're okay. "
He stopped fighting against the hands, moving closer to them as they moved from his shoulders to his face, bringing him further out of the terror.
"That's it, John. Breathe, now. Gosh! 
 supposed to be the doctor, here!"
He attempted to breathe, pushing himself upright and looking around confusedly. Sherlock was sitting on the bed beside him, his right hand gripping John's shoulder and a concerned expression so unlike him on his face. John closed his eyes and pulled in a shuddering breath, unfortunately bringing back the memories of his nightmare. A sob filled his chest instead, growing until it burst and trembling filled his entire body.
He saw Sherlock's concerned face, not sure what to do, and then he felt the younger man's hands tight around his shoulders, pulling him into his chest before wrapping his arms around him. John's hands sought to grip Sherlock's shirt, holding to it tightly. His face was buried in the other's shoulder, sobs wracking his slight body and tears soaking through the fabric under his cheek.
"It was a dream..." Sherlock told him gently, though clearly unsure if he was doing the right thing. "It's alright, John. It was just a dream."
John didn't reply, still, his forehead resting on the younger man's shoulder as the tears slowly stopped. Finally, he pushed back and laid back against his pillow, embarrassed. He was a grown man, older than his flat-mate, and had sat for nearly five minutes sobbing his heart out on Sherlock Holmes's shoulder. He waited for the taunting comment.
Sherlock had a smart response for everything, now where was it?
"Are you alright?"
John looked at him quickly, shocked. His tone had been gentle, as though speaking to a child. Not taunting at all. He attempted a shaky nod, and then looked toward the wall, waiting for Sherlock's weight to leave the bed signaling that he'd decided he'd wasted enough time at John's bedside. He didn't leave.
"Really?" Sherlock questioned. His tone was still gentle, but skeptic.
"Yes."
Sherlock examined the doctor with those dark eyes that seemed to x-ray every part of him.
"You are surprised," he commented, shifting to touch his fingertips. "Why?"
When John did not respond, he went on.
"Maybe I asked you to assist with my case too quickly. Back so soon from the war... maybe you'd better rest awhile, Doctor, before you return to activities."
"It's not... that..." John said at last. "The dreams... they're normal."
He could see an expression of pity on the other man's face as he tried to decide how to explain that the surprise was at a solitary man 
 enough to make sure he was okay.
"I suppose I'm not used to... this..." he admitted. "Nurses didn't exactly come rushing to my bedside when I had a nightmare."
"I apologize," Sherlock said quickly, stiffly, "Am I making things awkward? I can leave, if you like. I wasn't asleep, just sitting by the fire."
"No! It's not that!" John interjected quickly, stopping the detective who had just started to rise from his seat. "It's not awkward," he admitted. "It's... 
."
Now it was Sherlock's turn to appear surprised.
"Why should it surprise you that I was worried about you. It didn't exactly sound like it was a pleasant dream you were having. I needed to make sure you were alright. I've heard," he added with a fleeting smile, "That that is what friends do."
"I thought you didn't have friends," John commented.
Sherlock gazed at him steadily for a long minute, his eyes flickering with something John couldn't quite name.
"You saved my life, John," Sherlock reminded him, his voice only a murmur. "You killed a man for me."
"And you would have done the same for me," John responded promptly. Sherlock actually smiled.
"I'm glad you understand that. I would, indeed... now if that's not friends, then what is?"
He didn't wait for a reply, reaching out to grip John's shoulder once more, but when he moved to rise, John pushed himself upright once more.
"Sherlock?"
He paused, looking back at him questioningly, and then allowed himself to be pulled into another embrace, wrapping his arms compliably around the doctor once more.
"Thank you, Sherlock," he whispered. Sherlock waited until he'd rested himself back against the pillow and closed his eyes.
"Don't mention it," he responded quietly. "I'll just be downstairs if you need me."
John nodded slightly and Sherlock squeezed his shoulder one final time before leaving the room. After he had closed the door, he leaned back against it and closed his eyes. He'd lived on his own too long. Forgotten how to talk to people... but maybe that was why he and John got on so well. John didn't, either.
In his brilliant mind, Sherlock sought out the order of operations. One negative and one positive made a negative, but two negatives made a positive.
