Molly arrives at Baker Street nervous, her hands fidgeting with the hem of her flowery top and her eyes wandering back and forth over the absence of her engagement ring. She knows Sherlock was high when he had harshly pointed out the lack of it the other day in the lab, and the Magnussen case had taken its toll on him. Dear God, she slapped him. Not even once, but a few times. Regret immediately set in for losing her temper that way, but she can't stand to see him ruining himself voluntarily when he now has a huge support system, he could rather lean on. Knowing he is going through a lot of emotions right now, she thought it best to visit him, instead of waiting for him to visit her. He deserves an apology for her abuse; the anger of the situation and her own repressed stress had come to an ugly head in that moment. Molly has spent too long disregarding, hiding, pushing down, and avoiding her feelings. It's time for the truth, and nothing but.
After dodging most of Mrs. Hudson's questions (Lord help her she just wasn't in the mood for them), she makes her way slowly up the stairs to 221B, seeing the door open as it usually is when Sherlock is in. Taking a deep breath, she walks up, seeing a curly mop of hair from behind, and gently raps on the paint-chipped door.
Sherlock whirls around and his face hardens a bit. "Molly."
"Erm...hello Sherlock. Can we…talk?"
Sherlock looks over her, noticing her fiddling with her bare ring finger. Probably force of habit from when there was in fact, a ring there. "You can see I'm a bit busy", he motions to his open laptop.
"Well...yes...uh, right. Shall I come back another time then?"
He sighs heavily. "No, come in."
Nodding slowly, she walks a few feet into the flat and sets her purse down beside the sofa quietly. "I just wanted to say sorry to you..."
Sherlock furrows his brow and stands up straight, spinning on his heel to turn towards her. "What? Wh-...why?"
Molly looks up at him guiltily. "For slapping you the other day. It wasn't right. Nobody should ever lay a hand on anyone else. It's wrong and I...I lost control of my emotions and I'm really sorry. You didn't deserve that type of assault."
He nods slowly, a confused twinkle still in his eye. "That "type" of assault?", he questions, a teasing undertone to his deep voice.
She chews her lip a bit. "You know that you deserved a stern talking to at least. That's all I meant."
"It was for a case, I thought I explained th-"
"I don't care what it was for, Sherlock! I may be sorry for slapping you, but what I said still rings true, and I'm still upset that you would rather damage your mind and your health than lean on any one of us to come up with another plan."
Sherlock smirks slightly and Molly sets her jaw and crosses her arms. "I know I don't always make the right decisions and I put myself at risk too much. But in my defense, the Magnussen case was of national importance, as Mycroft would have said if he had realized it was. So much for him being the 'smart one'. It was of course, of personal importance too, with Mary and John being involved as well. I'm sure you've gotten the run-down from Mary. Let me guess, you're here to give me a verbal lashing for killing a man and not being affected too I assume?"
"No. Because you may have fooled yourself into thinking it doesn't affect you, but I know you better than that. You put on a pretty stony front, but on the inside, you feel just as much as any other human being. You see it as a weakness, and admittedly, yes…sometimes emotions can make you feel weak. But most times strength gets built off of perceived weakness. So…feeling something about it, despite him being a horrid person, is normal and strong actually."
"That's how you feel?"
"Yes, it is."
He looks her over and narrows his eyes a bit. "This doesn't by any chance, have anything to do with you and...Tom?...does it?"
Molly rolls her eyes. "Firstly, you don't have to pretend to forget his name, I know you know it. Secondly...only a bit." Taking a breath, she swallows hard. "I know everyone thinks I'm weak, because I feel deeply, and I care too much. That's no secret, no matter how much people think it is."
Sherlock furrows his brow. "We don't..."
"Please don't insult my intelligence. I do still have that regardless of my unwavering emotion. Maybe you all wouldn't believe this, but I'm the one who broke off the engagement. Me. Not Tom. I wasn't let down, or left, or insulted like usual. I broke it off."
He looks a bit puzzled. "Oh...um...g-good for you...?"
"Yeah. It is good for me. For years I tried to put my true feelings aside, you know, I tried to be the person everyone perceived. The person that everyone expected me to be. But I'm done being that person. I'm done just tolerating relationships. I'm done just being okay with my life. I'm done being nervous and shaky and stumbling over my words because I don't think too highly of myself except for when I'm working. I deserve to be honest. With myself, with the people around me, and with...", she trails off and takes a deep breath in, letting it out slowly. "With you."
Molly slowly sits on the sofa and Sherlock sits in the desk chair diagonal from her. "With me?"
"Yes. And I want you to be honest with me too. No matter what. Even if it's difficult or you think there would be repercussions. Just raw, pure, honesty. Got it?"
Sherlock swallows the lump suddenly in his throat and nods slowly, his mind beginning to race a mile a minute, knowing that in some instances he had not been as subtle as he had intended to.
"Okay then. I'll start."
"Go on."
"I broke the engagement with Tom because it wasn't satisfying."
Sherlock raises an eyebrow, a nod towards the innuendo but Molly cuts him off before he can make a snide comment about her past "having a lot of sex" comments.
"In more than /that/ way, Sherlock. In fact, I'm shocked you even caught on to that unintended innuendo due to your...lack of practical experience so to speak. However, this conversation is not to put either of us down. So back on point. My relationship with him was very...redundant. It was good at first y'know…you weren't here, and you didn't get in the way of anything with your constant requests and urgent lab needs and such..."
"But then I came back. Molly I-"
"I'm not finished yet."
"Right…er...go on then."
"Then you came back and when I saw you in my locker mirror, I almost thought you were a ghost. I certainly wouldn't put it past you to haunt people from the other side, however, it was more logical that you were actually standing behind me and I turned around. And when...when I saw you...", her voice begins to waver a bit, but she clears her throat. "When I saw you, I was overjoyed, despite all of the annoyance and danger and irritations you had previously brought to my life. Because when you were gone, I realized just how much I missed that, and how much I-I missed you...and I know that I'm not the biggest part of your life by a long shot. I know that I'm just...just your wallflower friend that you can come to when it's convenient. I know that, I do."
Sherlock's eyes widen a bit in shock. "Molly…I told you once before and I meant it, that you do count. You do matter. You are a big part of my life, just like all my other friends. I never thought I would ever say I had friends. It wasn't something I ever imagined, being who I am. But you matter to me. As much as John and Mary and Lestrade and Mrs. Hudson. You helped save my life, so I carry you in high regard. I...missed you too..."
"When I saw you, I wanted to cry and hug you tight and not let go. But I didn't because I know you aren't that kind of person, but I saw in your eyes how much you were hurting and how emotional it was for you too. I may not read people the way you do, but I'm pretty good at reading emotions off of faces with almost the same clarity as you read a profession off of a tie or a shoe."
"I've noticed...you see me. Truthfully, that is terrifying to me. I've always been able to hide myself to get ahead, to keep the people around me also in check. But with you...I can't hide. That's unfamiliar and makes me squirm. But knowing you for so many years, I now know that you wouldn't extort my feelings, and you wouldn't make me feel them if I don't want to or aren't ready to. So I thank you for that too. I know I don't give you the credit or the respect that you deserve as a friend. As I said at John's wedding, I am a rude, obnoxious arsehole. I know that, and I apologize for the moments I am ignorant towards you, Molly."
"Thank you for that." Molly blushes a bit and fiddles with her fingers. "Erm...anyway I..I got a bit off track. When you came back, my relationship with Tom was already getting a bit stale and boring so to speak. I guess I just...I didn't want you to see me in another failed relationship and judge me the way you used to judge John and all his girlfriends. I wanted it to work so badly, that I ignored how I was feeling for months because I wanted to prove you wrong for something you never said, but that I was positive you were thinking. I /know/ how you felt about Tom, I could tell even before John's wedding. You nearly scoffed out loud."
"He was an idiot, and clearly did not deserve you. None of your moronic boyfriends did. Least of all Moriarty!"
Molly snorts and rubs her face. "Oh God...yeah well, we both know I don't have the best track record. But it's hardly my fault that hardly any man wants to date a pathologist who cuts up cadavers for a living."
"Pfft. Stupid."
"Most men are stupid. Most...people...are pretty stupid. But don't tell anyone that I agree with you, hm?"
Sherlock smirks playfully.
"Anyway, you keep getting me off track to my damn point."
"Which is?"
"I didn't love Tom enough to marry him. I didn't want to be in a marriage where the relationship was already stagnant. I couldn't. So I broke it off with him. The bastard wasn't even very shocked. Said he had planned to move us to Montreal for his job! Canada, Sherlock! He was going to plan to move us both without telling me, and with no regard to me or my career." She pauses for a moment. "Also…I regret not following you when you left John and Mary's wedding. I wanted to dance with you…you seemed so alone."
His face falls a bit and he swallows. "It's…fine. I knew you couldn't and Janine had found someone else finally so I thought it best to slip out when I had the opportunity to do so. But regardless, I told you he was a moron."
"No, you didn't."
"Well, no, I was trying to be kind by holding my tongue, however, you said you knew how I felt about him."
"It was plastered on your face every time you saw him. Didn't take a genius."
"Mhh..."
"But anyway, it wasn't fair for me to stay with him, and despite what a bastard he was, it wasn't fair to him for me to have feelings for another man the whole time. So..." Molly looks down, avoiding Sherlock's gaze.
"Another man? There's already another, Molly? Oi. And here I was thinking you finally learnt your lesson that they'll always let you down. I did tell you before that you should avoid all future attempts at a relationship. I don't think any man is best suited for you."
"Gee, thanks", she mumbles sadly.
"No…no, no. Not- not like that! I mean it in a good way. You're an extremely intelligent woman with a high IQ and an insane sense of empathy. They may be extremely lucky to have you, but you'd always be stuck with an idiot because I don't think any man could match your greatness. So who is this man you've fallen for after Tom? Not that I'm very into gossip, but while we are in conversation and I'm engaged by it."
Molly flushes a deep red and fiddles more with her hands. "Same person who would match me, in your opinion, anyway..."
"I never mentioned anyone. In fact, I believe I said no man could," He quirks his head. "Though I suppose I-…/oh/."
Molly swallows hard and keeps her gaze down, nervously chewing her lip. "You mentioned me coming back, and...and how you felt and then..." he trails off.
She remains silent and can feel the tears of humiliation stinging her eyes. Suddenly she pops up from her seat and grabs her bag. "No. I'm…I'm not going to be humiliated for telling the truth or…or for you figuring it out rather. I'm going to be a better person and stand up for myself more, and I won't let you degrade me because you don't know how to react so I- I'm gonna just go." Molly rushes to the door but Sherlock gently grabs her wrist.
"Molly, wait."
Blinking back her tears, she freezes in her tracks, still looking away from him.
"I know I don't have the best past in regard to my reactions to your feelings. I wholly apologize for all of them. I never ever meant to hurt you. I- I must admit I'm flattered…"
"But?"
"Huh?"
"There's a "but" coming. But, what, Sherlock? You don't feel the same. I get it. Really, I do. I'm great, and smart, and kind, but my "greatness" isn't for you. I got it. I didn't expect anything from you, I just...I wanted to be honest. I was sick of it weighing on me. I thought that I was picking up vibes at certain moments from you too...but now I know I was mistaken. I knew I probably was. You're married to your work, right? Yeah."
Sherlock clears his throat and turns her around. She still refuses to look at him, so he begins o speak again. "Molly, it's a constant struggle inside of me. I need to be detached because if I am not, things like Moriarty and Magnussen happen. I have many enemies and enemies use weaknesses to get to me. My weaknesses being my friends. I've been lucky that you are my greatest secret. You are my greatest and darkest secret, Molly Hooper. The only bad person who could have ever known of my friendship with you was Moriarty, and he's gone. I try to keep you at arm's length because I want to protect you. John was in the Army, Mary was a sharpshooter, hell. Mrs. Hudson used to run a drug cartel, and Lestrade is a copper. But you…you are...you are my one piece of normalcy. You ground me. You keep me in reality. When I talk to you or visit you, or even when I'm just close to you, I feel calmer I feel more ordinary. As tough as you are, you can't protect yourself from my life as much as my other friends. You are strong, but not that strong. And that's not an insult it's just...if a criminal wanted to get to you, it's pretty easy, and I won't let that happen, Molly. I won't let you get destroyed because of my lifestyle. Alright? So I-...I can't. We...can't. It's just not an option if you want to keep your sense of safety and security."
"Screw safety and security, Sherlock! I know about your life. I know about the dangers just knowing you poses, and I don't care. I know that I felt something before. When you found out I was engaged, when you came to me about the stag night, even when you snarked that my ring was gone...I'm not imagining, am I?"
"No... I did ask you out subtly...but I also knew you couldn't", he whispers. "But Molly, even now, I can't, we can't. I refuse to do that to you. It would be selfish, even if it's your choice too. I can't keep you safe twenty-four seven. You know how many times our other friends have nearly been killed because of me. I'm not willing to even risk that with you, and I won't let you convince me otherwise. I'm sorry...I am. We just...can't."
Molly sniffs and nods slowly. "Okay, that's your choice, and I can't force you to do anything you don't want to do. But staying on the honesty route, you're the only man for me, Sherlock Holmes. Nobody else will do. So you're right. I'll have to avoid all future attempts at a relationship because I know they won't be as great as one I could have with you."
"Molly..."
"I know. I'm sorry too", she whispers. "Thanks for being honest with me though."
Sherlock nods slowly. "I still enjoy your friendship, Molly. I know how cliché and cringeworthy that sounds right now but... as I said, I feel normal around you. I don't want to lose you."
Molly looks into his eyes and gently cups his cheek, sighing. "Me neither, maybe if this were any other life, Holmes..."
"Any other life and I'd be yours, Hooper. But for now..."
"For now...?"
"Let's just start with fish and chips between great friends, hm?"
Molly chuckles softly and nods. "Knowing I can accept this time, and never turn down a good plate, you sneaky bastard."
"So is that a yes, Molly Hooper?"
"That would be a yes, Sherlock Holmes", she giggles, adjusting her purse on her shoulder.
Sherlock grins and fondly places a hand on her shoulder. "Right then. Let's go."
"Let's", Molly smiles softly as they head out to find a cab. Though it wasn't the result she wanted, she finds extreme comfort in his honesty and in the fact that he does have residual feelings for her as well. Plus, she would never want to lose him even as a friend, she got to know what that felt like when he was stuck in Serbia, and she doesn't want to live without him again, no matter how utterly impossible he can be.
Finding that her heart is still happy over the revelation that he knows she loves him, and that he has some feelings for her, she comes to an optimistic conclusion. There may just be hope for them yet.
Molly can't wait to find out what comes next, oblivious to the trials and tribulations that will be thrown at them in the following months. Especially as an unlikely foe with green contacts, glasses, a tight bun, and curly ringlets around her face serves two perfectly golden plates of fish and chips in front of the detective and the pathologist, smirking to herself as she leaves their sight.
After Sherlock Holmes (the curly-haired newfound celebrity) and his 'friend' paid for their food separately, as the woman insisted, they get up and leave together. Heading to the ladies' room, the server lets down her long, dark, curly hair and pocket the faux glasses before plucking out each contact, revealing her true, cold, tantalizing blue eyes. Looking down at her apron, she smirks at the credit card slip that she had 'forgotten' to leave at the front counter.
"Molly Hooper", she murmurs to herself. "What in the world do you mean to Sherlock Holmes, hm?"
