John was holding a briefing in the conference room at Scotland Yard. It wasn't his first time, over the past few months of his new-found partnership with Sherlock the yard had taken him in their arms as a consultant on missions. John had done several missions in Afghanistan so they fed on his knowledge on that department; he was a natural leader. A dozen of the MET's finest plus Sherlock and Greg were in the meeting too.
John was going over the finalised plan of how to infiltrate the drugs ring warehouse. They were on the brink of cracking a huge drugs ring with links to eastern countries. Then there was a knock at the door. John spun his whiteboard around to the blank side so the visitor wouldn't see. "Donovan open the door".
She opened the door and a dainty brown haired man stepped in. Curious eyes followed him but he didn't settle his gaze until he got to John. John inhaled sharply. "Micheal".
"John". The man replied. Sherlock watched the interaction with a million questions rushing through his mind. He settled on, "What do you want?".
"Sherlock!", John scolded. "But yes um what are you doing here?".
"I heard you were back in London, you didn't tell me".
"Didn't seem like your business", John shot back. The whole room went silent, watching their exchange.
"Um no of course not". Micheal cleared his throat. "There was a complication with one of the letters you sent. I need you to sign one of the papers".
"Right". John nodded. "How did you know I was here? I didn't tell you anything".
"I asked Mike. Mike Stamford".
"I know who he is".
"Right. Obviously. Sorry to disturb your meeting but I thought you would want to know". The tension was so thick in the air you could probably slice through it with a knife. John took a deep breath in. "Atkinson you're in charge, just go over what I told you yesterday. As for the rest of you, I have to go".
"Everything alright, mate?", Greg asked.
"Yes just...personal issues. It's fine".
"Should I come with you?", Sherlock asked.
John shook his head. "No. See you later". He picked up his phone and made his way to the door. "This better be quick, Micheal".
"Who was that?", Sally asked to nobody in particular when John left.
"Micheal", Greg replied.
"You know him then?".
"Cor, no. Dunno who he is, Sherlock?".
Sherlock strummed his fingers on the desk. "Hm?".
"You know who that Micheal bloke is?", Greg asked him.
"No". He shook his head. "Atkinson, on with the brief".
"Wait! Wait!". Greg protested. "A man waltzed into the room asking for John and you're not at all curious as to who it is?".
"Of course I'm curious". Sherlock snapped. "I don't have enough data to draw conclusions yet so on with the brief".
When Sherlock got home he wasn't expecting anyone, to his surprise John and Mycroft were there. "Mycroft what are you doing here? I don't care for your case". He languidly shucked off his coat and flopped onto the sofa.
"Contrary to popular belief you are not the only resident at this flat. I'm here for John, not you". Mycroft said coolly. Sherlock shot up and sat with his eyes piercing the two men. "What an earth do you want with John?".
"He's asked for my advice".
"Advice?". Sherlock scoffed. "You've asked my brother for advice?", he directed to John.
"Yes, I have. He's my friend, I don't see a problem with it".
Sherlock's eyes widened. Mycroft sighed. "Brother mine, John isn't just your friend".
"But he was my friend first", Sherlock whined. "He's mine".
"I am not yours", John barked. "I am my own person, you do not own me".
"John I wasn't I-".
"Oh shut up", he rolled his eyes. "Mycroft we will continue this conversation tomorrow, I'm off to bed".
"Very well, John. Come by Diogenes tomorrow afternoon".
"Of course, goodnight". He got up out his chair. "Night, Sherlock".
Sherlock scowled and forced his brother out of his chair and into John's one. He strummed his fingers on the arms of the chair. "It's about Micheal, isn't it?".
"What is about Micheal?".
"Oh don't play dumb with me, Mycroft. A man by the name of Micheal came by the yard today asking for John and although there seemed to be negative tension between them John left with him so that suggests he isn't a threat. Who is this Micheal?". He sneered and steepled his fingers under his chin.
"You haven't figured it out?", Mycroft cocked his eyebrow.
"Obviously not. Who is he and what does he want with John?".
"That is not my information to share. John will tell you when and if he's comfortable to do so".
"So he's comfortable telling you and not me?".
Mycroft sighed. "Him telling me was not much of his choice. He needs my help and the only way for me to do so if I know the whole situation".
Sherlock pondered that for a second. "So he was reluctant to tell you?".
Mycroft nodded.
"He's not in imminent danger?".
"No. None at all. If Dr. Watson was ever in danger you know that you'd be the first to know".
"Hmm. Good". He hummed. "Right get out then".
Mycroft got up and sighed. "Goodnight, Sherlock".
The next morning Sherlock and John headed down to the yard. Sherlock was busying himself with some files so John went down to the cafeteria to grab some tea. "You alright, mate?", a familiar voice asked. John turned to see Greg and smiled. "Yeah I'm fine. You alright?".
"Yeah just tired. The usual". Greg grabbed two teas. "Here it's on me".
"Ta". John took the tea. "Not really on you though is it? Don't you get everything for free because you're the DI?".
Greg shrugged. "Perks". They both took a seat in the cafeteria, John took a big gulp and then put his cup down with a little too much force. "Alright, out with it".
"Out with what?", Greg asked innocently.
"You want to say something or ask something. I can tell, you're playing with your wedding ring".
"Shit". Greg huffed. "You're as bad as Sherlock".
"Hmm". John toyed with cup. "Well out with it then".
"Right". Greg cleared his throat. "That Micheal bloke, yesterday. Who is he? Are you alright?".
John took a sip of his tea to contemplate his answer, he held the cup tightly. "He's somebody that I used to know". He started carefully. "We just have to sort through some things".
"Right", Greg hummed. "So you're not on good terms?".
"No, not at all. Haven't seen him since I got deployed".
"So something happened between the two of you? He mentioned letters".
"Yeah you could say that". John smiled sadly. "Look I'm not really comfortable talking about this yet so could we just drop it?".
"Oh, right. Of course, mate. Didn't mean to make you uncomfortable".
"It's alright". He sighed. "I'll tell you about it once everything's done".
"Everything's done?".
"Just gotta finish some stuff up this afternoon. Then yeah..."
"That sounds ominous. You sure you're alright?". Greg downed the rest of his tea. "You're not in danger are you?".
"No. No. Not at all. I'm fine, really. Don't worry about me", John reassured him.
"Alright, if you say so. Just let me know if you need help, yeah?".
"Of course. Thanks". John stood up out of his chair. "Come on, let's go back to the madman".
Once back in the office John busied himself with the files Sherlock was looking over. Taking the distraction, Sherlock sauntered over to Greg.
"So what did you find?", he whispered to him.
"Hm?".
"Don't be obtuse, Graham. The guy, Micheal. Who is he?".
Greg sighed. "He didn't say much. Said he hasn't seen him since he got deployed".
Sherlock nodded. "Anything else?".
"Erm said he's gotta sort something out this afternoon then everything will be done".
"What will be done?", Sherlock urged.
"Christ Sherlock, I don't know. He said he'd tell after he's sorted everything out. You know he doesn't need to tell us everything going on in his life".
"I disagree. He's going to meet my brother this afternoon".
"Who, John?".
"Obviously". Sherlock grumbled.
"Don't you dare stalk him. If John's keeping this to himself then let him".
"Sherlock", John called. "Are we going to be on the stakeout team tonight?".
Sherlock pulled out of his musings and joined John at the table. "Uh, yeah. That's the plan".
"So we'll be a team, right?". He turned to Greg. "I know we're not official officers but I'd prefer to be on a team with Sherlock than one of your men".
Greg eagerly nodded. "Yep. That's fine. Will put relief on the others, no one wants to be paired with him".
"Yeah wonder why", John grinned at Sherlock. "So, same team? We'll take a panda car".
"Yeah. Okay. You...you want to be on the same team as me?".
John smiled. "Obviously. Now come on talk to me about what you've found".
Over the next few hours they finalised their plans to infiltrate the drugs ring. Sherlock and John were a team and Greg decided to settle on Donovan. At around 1pm John excused himself.
"Don't you dare follow him", Greg told Sherlock.
"I will not. I'm going to head to the morgue".
Greg glared at him. "I don't believe you but okay. Make sure you and John are here at 6pm, alright?".
"Fine", he huffed. "Laters".
True to his word, Sherlock spent his afternoon in the morgue. He experimented on a few toes and fingers, chatted with Molly then made his way back to Scotland Yard. There were a lot of officers milling around awaiting his arrival.
"Christ here you are, what took you so long?". Greg ushered him inside the room. Sherlock just let himself be manhandled. Greg stood at the top of the room by the board. "So". He began. "We know that tonight they're planning on sending a shipment to Afghanistan. All we need to do is intercept that and cuff them all. You said they should start moving at 8, right Sherlock?".
"Right".
"Great so we've just got to wait for John, he got held up somewhere. I'll put the teams on the board so you lot can discuss or whatever. Everyone takes a panda car alright? And we'll have a team in SUV's on standby".
Everyone dispersed into their teams to supposedly discuss tactics but really they were discussing what food to bring for the stakeout. Sherlock sat stupidly by himself, waiting for John. Luckily a few minutes later John arrived. "Sorry I'm late, Greg".
"No problem. We're just going over shit with our teams".
"Alright". He sat down beside Sherlock. "You alright?".
"Yeah. Fine. You?".
"Er yeah. I'm alright. So tonight, wanna discuss anything?".
"No. No, it's fine". Sherlock strummed his fingers on the desk. "How did it go with my brother? Why did he make you late?".
"Oh". John said slowly. "He didn't make me late. Micheal did, he got caught up with shit, I don't know really".
"Ah". Sherlock nodded. "Who is Micheal?". Sherlock watched John's shoulder's tense. "Nobody important", he replied. "Wanna go to Tesco's to get something to eat for later? You probably haven't eaten, have you?".
Sherlock accepted the dismissal. "No, I haven't eaten".
"Alright. Let's go. Should we get stuff for everyone else?".
"No, because then we'd have a list". Sherlock got up out of his chair. John got up out of his and leant in closer to Sherlock. "Yeah but then we'd have an excuse to stay out of here longer".
"I like the way you think, Watson". Sherlock grinned. "Right", he addressed the whole room. "John and I are going to Tesco's. You lot want anything?".
"You buying the snacks for the stakeout?", Greg asked.
"Obviously". Sherlock rolled his eyes. "So you want anything?".
"Er yeah just get a few packs of crisps, drinks and chocolate. Anything really, then we'll share with everyone before we leave".
"Alright". John replied. "Let's go, Sherlock". John caught him by the sleeve of his coat and dragged him out of the room. "So what'd you do this afternoon?".
"Went to the morgue. Molly had lipstick on, made her lips look slippery".
"Oh? What do you mean slippery?".
"You know her lips...", he waved his hands around. "They looked wet".
"Oh?". John said for the second time. "Right. So was that good or bad?".
"Was what good or bad?".
"Her lips...being slippery and wet".
"Bad!", Sherlock exclaimed. "Very bad. It was distracting".
"Right". John cleared his throat. "So it made you...made you want to kiss her?".
"What!?", Sherlock practically shrieked. "Why on earth would I want to kiss her?".
"I don't know". John grumbled. "You said it was distracting".
"Yes", he whined. "Why did she feel the need to do that to her lips. It's weird. They were all shiny, I didn't like it".
"Did you tell her that?".
"Tell her what?".
"That you didn't like it".
"Obviously". He huffed. He held up his hand to hail a cab. "She dashed out of the room after I said that then I had to leave". The cab pulled up and the two of them got in, Sherlock shot him the address. "I have no idea how you do that", John said.
"Do what?".
"Hail a cab out of thin air".
Sherlock smirked. "Magician never reveals his secrets".
John grinned. "Ah, Sherlock". He looked out of the window to watch the passing cars. "Molly was flirting with you, by the way".
"Flirting!?", he yelled.
"Oi", the driver shouted.
"Flirting?", Sherlock said in a lower tone. "What do you mean?".
John shrugged but didn't face him. "Seems like the lipstick was a way to get you to notice her to you know, kiss her".
"Why would she think I would want to kiss her?".
"Because she's a cute girl, you know? And she's interested in you".
"Well I should think so, I'm a very interesting person".
John sighed and put his hands in head. "No, you genius. She's interested in you as in wants to have sex with you". When there was no reply John looked up at his friend to see him blinking a hundred times per second. John put a hand on his forearm, "You alright?".
Sherlock sucked in a big breath. "Molly wants to have sex with me?".
"You didn't know? The girls been flirting with you for months. Probably been doing before I got here".
"I- I'm gay. I'm gay. How does she not know that? What? People are so stupid".
John gaped at him. "You're gay?".
"You didn't know? Yes, I'm gay".
"I-I okay". He breathed in. "Right. Just tell Molly that and she'll back off".
"I shall do that. Thank you". Sherlock looked out of the window. "You're not homophobic, are you?".
"What!? No, of course not. Of course not. Like I said, it's all fine".
Sherlock hummed. "Alright then".
"Sherlock?".
"Hm?".
"Why did we take a cab if we're going to Tesco's".
"Oh". He grinned. "You didn't say which Tesco's so I took the liberty of going to the one further away".
"You're a menace, you know that?".
"I know", he smiled.
