 Mother's Day is celebrated on the 4th Sunday of Lent in the UK, which is today.
Molly opened her eyes as she felt Sherlock pull away from her, and she made a little sound of protest. The alarm hadn't even gone off.
"Hush, love," he told her softly. "You don't need to get up yet." There was a short pause, and he added, "Although you might want to put on your pyjamas or chemise to preserve your modesty."
Molly suspected Sherlock had plans to bring their daughters into the bedroom, or he wouldn't have made a comment like that. It was Mother's Day, so perhaps he was planning something for that. "Okay."
She watched Sherlock open his bedside drawer to grab a pair of boxers. He put them on and slipped on his maroon dressing gown, then left the bedroom.
Molly got out of bed to do as Sherlock had suggested, finding a clean pair of knickers and her favourite pink chemise which she, truthfully, rarely wore these days. Sleeping skin-to-skin was so much nicer and always convenient when a middle of the night romantic mood struck.
While she was dressing, she heard Sherlock's voice in the monitor and looked over to where he was bending towards Victoria. "Wake up, princess. Do you want to help Daddy make breakfast for your mummy?"
Victoria blinked sleepily and sat up. "Bweakfast for Mummy and me too?"
"Yes, for you too, but Mummy first, because it's a special day for mothers," he responded.
"And you and Chwisty?"
"Your sister is still sleeping, so we will take care of Mummy, then the rest of us later. How does that sound?"
Victoria rubbed her eyes. "Okay, Daddy."
Molly smiled as Sherlock helped Victoria from her bed and the monitor displayed an empty bed, even as footsteps went along the passage to the stairs.
She slipped back under the duvet, propping herself up on her pillows to wait, Apparently, she was to be thoroughly spoiled for Mother's Day before they headed off to church.
While she waited, she closed her eyes and reflected on the latest events in their lives with regard to their church and how happy she was that things were progressing slowly towards normalcy, first of all with the introduction of a Zoom Bible study series for Lent three weeks earlier.
XOXOXOXOXOXOXOX
"
food 
Molly recalled Sherlock filling her in on the second week of Bible study, which focussed on Jesus saying he was the light of the world.
With news of church reopening on the 7th, the decision was made to change the Bible study to Monday night. Unfortunately, with Molly's work schedule, that meant she had been unable to attend the session on the 8th, but Sherlock had tried to listen in whilst attending to their daughters, and he had found the discussion about Jesus being the Good Shepherd to be relevant also, particularly the reference to Jesus saying the shepherd would lay his life down for his sheep, referring to what he would do in the future at the crucifixion.
Molly smiled now at the remembrance of the church service last week. It had been wonderful to see people again, even if they had to remain socially distanced and wearing masks. But even though Molly had enjoyed the service, waving at the Watsons and other friends they had had no personal contact with for months, she had been anticipating even more returning home for a special reason.
Once again, her thoughts went back to what had happened after church.
p 
Victoria's voice brought her back to the present. "Mummy, bweakfast!" She climbed onto the bed and crawled over to Molly, pushing down the duvet to cuddle next to her. Molly was glad of Sherlock's warning to put on some clothes.
Sherlock was holding a baking tray which he placed on Molly's lap. On it was a plate with scrambled eggs, and a slice of buttered toast, as well as a cup of coffee. "Breakfast is served, madam," he said grandly, with a flourish and bow.
Molly giggled. "Why, thank you, honey."
"I helped, Mummy," pronounced Victoria with a little pout.
Molly kissed her daughter's forehead. "Thank you, Victoria."
"She helped Daddy butter the toast," Sherlock informed her.
"Did you already eat?" asked Molly, looking up at Sherlock.
"We wanted to get your breakfast first. I'll make more scrambled eggs for us in a few minutes and wake Christina."
Almost as if she'd heard her name, a sudden noise came from Christina's monitor.
"Well, I guess I'll get her now," commented Sherlock, and he left the room.
Molly took a bite of her eggs. Sherlock had added the curry powder she liked to them, and they were delicious.
"Me twy?" asked her obviously hungry daughter.
"Of course." Molly put a bit of egg on a fork and raised it to Victoria's mouth. She wondered how Victoria would like the curry flavour.
She almost laughed when Victoria made a face. "Yucky."
Sherlock reappeared in the doorway, holding Christina. "Victoria, I warned you that I was making special scrambled eggs for Mummy."
He sat on the bed with Christina and watched Molly eat. "Did I put in the correct amount of curry?"
"It's perfect," she said.
"When you are finished, I'll take the girls downstairs for breakfast so you can get dressed, and then I'll get dressed for church while you are getting the girls ready."
Molly nodded. "Sounds good."
 she thought forty-five minutes later, as she and Sherlock left the house with their daughters to attend church.
 The Bible study series idea was inspired by my own pastor doing this series for Lent, and I have been enjoying it and learning a lot. I hope you enjoyed the insights I provided.
I know this chapter had a fair bit of reflection so I could cover what had been happening in Sherlock and Molly's lives since my last story.
So, Molly is pregnant again. Are you surprised?
The next chapter will be firmly fixed on the present, rather than further reflections, and there is going to be a rather interesting revelation about the fate of someone from the series canon - any guesses?
Would you like to share your own thoughts about the "I am" statements made by Jesus? Do you like the "spiritual diet" idea?
As always, follows, favourites and feedback are most appreciated.
