Sherlock was walking down the sidewalk to his apartment when a woman smashed into him, head on.
"Oh, sorry." She didn't even look up, her small nose stuck in a book. She had reading glasses covering her green eyes and her light brown hair tied into a messy bun out of her face. She wore a long blue dress under a tan trench coat with black slip on shoes.
Sherlock noticed she had no jewelry on other than a golden band around her ring finger and was wearing no makeup.
"It is quite alright." But she clearly wasn't listening. He looked behind as she walked away and bumped into someone else.
"Welcome home, Sherlock."
"Thank you, Ms. Hudson." He walked in and looked around. Before he continued inside, he decided he wanted coffee so he walked back out onto the street.
A few minutes later, Sherlock walked into the coffee shop and walked up to the counter. While waiting for his order he noticed the woman he had bumped into sitting at one of the tables, reading. The shop was very crowded so he decided to sit at the empty seat across from her at her table.
"Hello again." He pulled out the chair and sat down. She looked up, confused.
"Do I know you?"
"Um, no. Though you did run into me on the street a bit ago."
"Oh, well I'm sorry." She went back to reading.
"Mind if I sit here?" She nodded but didn't look up. He noticed she was reading the book very quickly, turning a page every twelve seconds or so. "I'm sorry, I didn't catch your name."
"That's because I didn't give it." She looked up to him at this point and smiled softly. "It's Lily." She continued reading.
"Sherlock. Has it ever occurred to you that you read incredibly fast, Miss. Lily."
"Yes, it has. And is Ms, not Miss."
"Divorced." She stared at him.
"That is quite a personal question, Sherlock."
"Right, sorry." She sighed and looked back down. They sat in silence for a while before he spoke again. "Where did you learn you read like that."
"You're casing me. Why?"
"I'm not casing you."
"Yes, you are. You have only drinken a few sips of your drink which means you've been distracted. You haven't been able to keep your eyes off of me and while I'm flattered, your order, black with two sugars, indicates you are an antisocial person and did not come here to check out girls. You've been asking me questions, personal and otherwise, completely unprompted meaning you're trying to get to know me on a personal level, though still, I doubt you are looking for a date." She looked back up at him once again, smiling. "Am I close."
"Good guess."
"I don't guess. Your choice of attire in dark long clothes that are less masculin indicate you are quite proud and fancy yourself a scholar, possibly a detective or a mastermind. You think you know everything, quite ignorant Mr. Sherlock. If you find something you don't know about, you try to learn everything about it and figure it out." He nodded.
"Correct."
"And what had you decided about me?"
"Well, your reading habits tell me you are smart, you had a good education, probably came from a wealthy family. Your current, tired state indicates that you are quite busy. You might be a single mother given you were married, and your response to me calling you Miss you are probably divorced. Your attachment to the ring tells me you are not over him and it was young love that, quite frankly, was a mistake and you did not have children. Leaving the probability that you instead have a demanding job. Doctor or possibly a teacher. More likely a doctor who had their school paid for given your expensive outfit."
"Good work. You're wrong, but I applaud your effort." He looked at her confused so she continued. "I am a doctor at the hospital and my parents did pay for my schooling, you are correct with that. However, I was never married. I have never loved. This ring is on my wedding finger because I have quite large fingers. They are long which makes them look slimmer, but rings often only fit on my ring finger."
"Fascinating."
"Thank you."
"Where did you learn how to do that?"
"It's simple." He looked at her for a little while longer.
"I would like you to come home with me."
"Excuse me? I remember thinking you were not here to pick up women."
"I'm not, but you are a very special woman."
"I know."
"You might be able to help me."
"Possibly, what do you need my help for?"
"You'll find out soon enough."
"And what makes you think I'll go to your house with a stranger?"
"Because you're curious. And we're not strangers." He got up and offered her his hand. She hesitated but took it and followed him to his apartment.
