Greg entered the bar with Sally, they were on the lookout for their suspect. Greg scanned the crowd at the door when he's eyes stopped, he honed in on a familiar face.
"That's Holmes isn't it?", Sally said before he could.
"Yeah. It is. Let's go say hi".
They made their way over to Sherlock who was perched on a bar stool with a tumbler of whiskey.
"Fancy seeing you here?", Greg grinned.
"Graham, Sally", he greeted. "Join me?".
They gave each other a look, Sally sat down opposite him and Greg stood in between them. "So what brings you here?", Sally asked. "Don't see like your setting".
"What? A bar?".
"I think she just means a social setting mate, never seen you come to a bar. You alone?".
Sherlock nodded. "Yes. You are right however. I'm not a social man but from time to time I do enjoy coming to a bar".
"Something happen with you and John?", Sally asked.
"No", he replied bluntly.
"Where is he then?", Greg asked.
"Out with his army mates, somewhere", he grumbled and waved his hand dismissively.
"Ah", Sally said with ease. "You miss him".
Greg heartedly slapped him on the shoulder. "Come on, mate. He's just hanging out with friends, not breaking up with you. He'll come back, you know".
Sherlock sighed. "I know".
"Wow", Sally gaped.
"What?".
"Just didn't expect you to actually admit you're worried about him breaking up with you".
Sherlock strummed his hand on the bar side. "I'm always worried about that. He's too good for me".
"You haven't nothing to worry about, mate. John's too in love with you to leave you. He's just having a catch up with some old friends", Greg assured him with a smile.
"I know", he replied.
"Why'd you decide to go for a drink? You alright?", Greg asked.
"I'm fine it's just tedious without John. The flat is dull and quiet". He took a sip of his whiskey. "Need the noise".
"Well don't get home too drunk", Greg grinned. On the other side of the room chaos erupted, all three looked in that direction. "What like those idiots?", Sherlock said. He looked closer and spotted a familiar head in the midst of it all. "Wait, that's my idiot".
"What!?". Greg followed Sherlock over to the chaos. Sally jogged over too and heard the end of a sentence: "--fuck off mate".
A familiar face was attempting to attack a brown haired man who was being held back two guys. "John!?", Greg's eyebrows flew off his head. The man in question stopped in his tracks and was met with Sherlock, Greg and Sally's questioning eyes. Everybody else stopped at the interruption. "Give me a moment", he said to them.
Calmly John walked over to the man being held back, everyone tensed. "Do. Not. Fucking. Touch. Me. Again", he punctuated with a poke of the man's chest. The man deflated and nodded, he walked off with his friends. Sherlock rushed over to John. "Are you alright?". He took him by the waist to get a good look at him. "You're not hurt are you?".
John smiled. "No, darling. I'm not hurt. What are you doing here though?".
Sherlock shook his head. "Irrelevant. What happened? Why were you fighting?". He lifted a hand up to caress his cheek. "You sure you're okay".
"Yes, I'm fine", John stressed. "He just touched me in places he shouldn't have".
Sherlock's eyes widened. "He touched you!?".
"He didn't get very far".
"Yeah, Watson fucking punched him in the gob", a man from the table behind them shouted.
"Murray shut up!", John protested. "Uh, I guess I'll introduce you lot then. Sally, Greg you come too". The two others joined them and stood at the table that consisted of John's friends from the army.
"So this is the bloke who's snagged Three Continents Watson", one of the men grinned.
"Never thought I'd see the day, you'd settle down", Murray joked.
"I did not settle down". John gripped Sherlock's arm. "This is Sherlock Holmes, my partner".
A chorus of cheers were met and Sherlock turned pink.
"We've heard a lot about you", one of them smirked through their glass. "All good, don't worry. You're one lucky man to have landed Captain John fucking Watson".
"I know. I'm very lucky", Sherlock replied honestly.
"God he really is hot and charming, isn't he?", Murray cringed.
"Shut up, Murray", John ordered. "Anyways these are my friends and colleagues, Sergeant Sally Donovan and DI Greg Lestrade".
"Coppers, Watson? So everything you said tonight is real?".
"Course it's real". Murray put his glass down with a bit too much force. "Don't you read the blog?".
"It is real", Greg piped up. "He leads a maddening life".
"And here we thought you'd be living like a civilian. Cor, Watson you just can't run away from the war can ya".
"Yes, thank you Peters", John sighed.
"He's right, John", Sherlock whispered down to him.
"Anyways lads I'll be off. No idea why he's here", he tugged on Sherlock's arm. "Good seeing you all and plea-". John groaned. Every single person at the table stood up and saluted him. "Captain Watson".
Automatically John straightened up and saluted them back. "Dismissed", he barked. They all grinned and sat back down. "I hate you all, see you".
"We love you too, Cap", Murray beamed. "See you later. Nice to meet you, Sherlock".
"You too", he replied. "Come along, John".
The four of them left the pub and stepped out into the fresh air. John looped his arm around his partner and Sherlock pulled him in closer. "Aren't the two of you working?", Sherlock asked.
"Mhm but we got distracted", Sally said.
"Oh, sorry", John replied.
"It's alright mate. We'll just head out tomorrow. We're gonna head off anyways. Catch you two later", Greg said. The pairs waved each other goodbye. Once the others were out of sight John turned to hold Sherlock's waist. "Why were you here? Did you follow me?".
"What? No. No. Of course not. No".
"Then why..?".
Sherlock sighed. "It's silly".
"No, come on", John urged.
"The flat was quiet without you and I needed somewhere with noise". Sherlock ducked his head. "I missed you".
"Sorry what was that?", John teased.
"John", Sherlock whined. John tilted Sherlock's chin up so they met eye to eye. "I'm just teasing you".
"I know", he mumbled. John caressed his cheek softly and smiled at him. "Did you really miss me that much that you came to the pub?".
"Mhm. Was a coincidence I ended up at the same one as you", he replied quietly.
"I believe you". He traced over his cheekbone then his plump lips before tip toeing up to kiss them. Sherlock sighed into the kiss and brought his hands up to hold John's head. John pulled back just as the touch happened and smiled. "You're cute for missing me", he murmured against his lips. Sherlock's lips twitched, he pressed their lips together firmly.
"You're a silly man", John told him gently.
"I know".
"Come on". John pecked him on the lips then took his hand. "Let's go home".
