"I'm going out," Sherlock announced, pulling his coat on and making for the door.
"Yea, no you're not," John countered, moving towards the door to block him.
"Why not? The weather's perfectly fine. I just want to get some fresh air. Go for a walk."
Sherlock tried to step past John.
"Why not? Are you… Have you not heard or read a word of what's been on the news?" John looked at him in disbelief.
"Dull, no."
John closed his eyes, took a deep breath in and let it out slowly, then looked at Sherlock.
"Of course. Of course you haven't. And you probably haven't checked any messages from Mycroft either."
Sherlock gave up trying to get past John and instead looked at him.
Tension in his jaw, solid stance, slight bags under his eyes. He was stressed.
"Why would I check Mycroft's messages?"
John sighed. "Sherlock, the country is in lockdown. You can only leave the house for groceries or if you're an essential worker."
"What? Why?"
Sometimes John was sure this is what caring for a toddler was like.
"You remember that virus that was spreading across China, and then other countries? Well, it's got here. And it's getting bad enough that they've locked everyone down."
Sherlock mentally went through what he had heard about it in its early stages, and what he knew of epidemiology. It made sense, really.
"But what if there's a case, John? The police are essential. I consult for them, therefore I am essential."
"Sherlock, the police are out patrolling and enforcing the lockdown. Greg's either checking on pubs to make sure they're shut, or packaging masks and gloves for the Yard. All the criminals who commit crimes worthy of you are too smart to risk their own lives right now. And that's what you'd be doing if you went out. Risking your own life, and Mrs Hudson's."
By this point they'd both ended up back in the sitting room, Sherlock still in his coat though.
"I'm perfectly healthy, thank you very much." Sherlock retorted as he flopped on the couch.
John let out a disbelieving laugh.
"Sherlock, you're an ex-smoker and ex addict, and that's not taking into account any damage that might have occurred while you were destroying Moriarty's web." Then John also sat. "And that isn't saying anything about how it'd affect Mrs Hudson if she caught it."
Sherlock groaned.
"So, we're stuck inside for the foreseeable future?"
Now that's where things got tricky.
"You and Mrs Hudson are. But I still have to go to work. There's talk of shifting to Telehealth format, but for now I still have to go to the clinic."
Sherlock huffed and sunk lower into the couch.
"I'm going to get so BORED."
John pinched the bridge of his nose. This was going to be a long lockdown.
