"When is she gonna wake up?", Sally sighed into the uncomfortable hospital chair.
"Nurse said in about an hour", Lestrade replied. He was sitting in the seat beside her whilst Sherlock paced up and down the waiting room.
"For god sake, Sherlock! Stop pacing", Greg cried. Sherlock stopped abruptly and threw his hands up in the air. "Bored!".
"Yeah well the woman's under some drugs so we can't question her till she wakes which is in about an hour".
"Why don't you leave and come back?", Sally offered. Sherlock rolled his eyes and reluctantly took a seat opposite the two of them. He fiddled with the hem of his blazer whilst he ran through the halls in his mind palace. He was jolted out of his musings by the midst of chaos behind him. Abruptly he turned around and stood along with Sally and Greg.
"Dr. Grayson get an ECG prepared", he heard a familiar voice order. He saw the tail of a hospital bed escape the corridor with doctors chasing after it. Sherlock's legs moved by theirselves and he found himself following. Greg and Sally were right behind him, Sherlock abruptly stopped at the sight before him making the two of them bang into him.
"Oi what are you doing?", Greg protested. He rubbed his head and looked where Sherlock's line of focus was. There was John Watson in his element.
"John works in A and E?", Sally questioned.
"Yes", Sherlock murmured with his eyes fixed on him. The three of them stood to the side watching him at work. Flawlessly, John directed the doctors to and fro all while performing procedures. He was dressed in his lab coat which Sherlock found incredibly attractive topped with his glasses and latex gloves.
"John wears glasses?", Lestrade asked.
"Mhm. He only wears them at work", Sherlock replied quietly.
Suddenly John came directly out into the hallway but he didn't catch their eyes. He checked his watch and smiled to himself a little. Just as he was walking in their direction a doctor grasped his arm. Sherlock tensed.
"Uh Dr. Darlett, I was just about to go for my break. How may I help you?", he smiled kindly.
The woman grinned and flashed her eyes. "Oh well that's perfect then, I'll join you".
"Join me..?", he cocked his eyebrow. "I prefer to break on my own".
"She's hitting on your man, why are you just standing here?", Sally said through gritted teeth. Sherlock made a move but Greg violently pulled him back. "No, let's see if John's faithful? You gotta trust him".
"I do trust him", Sherlock solemnly swore.
"Then let's see how this plays out".
"On your own? Come on let's change that, you headed down to the Costa?", she smiled brightly.
"No just to the cafeteria. I'm fine really", he moved away from her.
"Dr. Watson!", she called. "I think you'd prefer if I accompanied you".
"And why would I prefer that?", John mocked. The woman's flirtatious facade dropped for a second, she sighed. "Dr. Watson I'm asking you on a date if that wasn't clear".
"Oh no it's perfectly clear, I'm just not interested", he reassured her.
"Good on you John", Sally whispered.
"Not interested..?", she asked slowly.
"Yeah I'm not interested, Dr. Darlett. Now if you excuse me-"
Dr. Darlett grabbed John's arm. "I've been flirting with you for weeks, just one coffee, Dr. Watson. That's all I ask. Give me a chance", she gritted through her teeth.
"What don't you understand? I said no", he protested.
"Why? What's the reason?", she reluctantly released her grip on his arm.
"Shouldn't me saying no be enough!? It's a no".
"Come on Dr. Watson. Don't be coy", she flirted again.
John sighed and rubbed a hand over his face. "My personal business isn't yours to know but since you're so inclined to know why I don't want to go on a date with you is because I'm married".
Her jaw dropped. "Married!?".
"It's like watching a really shit drama", Sally mused.
"Mhm like Hollyoaks", Greg said.
"Holly what?", Sherlock asked.
"Yes I'm married now please leave me alone I was just on my way to call my husband".
"Why's he gonna call you?", Sally asked.
"He always calls me on his break".
"Your husband!?", Dr. Darlett practically yelled. Another doctor came running down the hallway, John visibly relaxed. "Oh Lucy, please may you take Dr. Darlett. I need to be on my break".
Lucy looked at the scene and frowned. "What's going on here?".
"Can you believe that Dr. Watson is married, he isn't right?", Dr. Darlett said.
"Of course he's married", Lucy scoffed. "He wears his ring all the time- oh. You're interested him". She grinned and clapped John in the back. "How is that you've still got women lining up for you Watson?".
"I- I need to go call Sherlock. He'll be worried if I don't call him, I always call him on my break".
"Of course. Go on", she smiled. "Now you Dr. Darlett are going to the south wing way away from Dr. Watson".
"Sorry did he say Sherlock as in Sherlock Holmes? He's 
Dr. Watson?".
John graciously side stepped back and grinned. "Yes I am 
Dr. Watson and I'm sure my husband wouldn't take kindly to your advances. Now if you'll excuse me".
He left Dr. Darlett gaping and Lucy grinning.
"You gonna go up to him?", Sally whispered.
"No, I'm going to see if he's actually going to call me".
"Looks like he is", Sally replied. John took out his phone and leant against the wall, the same wall the three others were on just at the other side.
"Hello, John", Sherlock greeted with a smile.
He heard and saw John sigh with a smile. "Hello".
"Everything alright?".
"Yes, no", he grumbled and scratched his head.
"What happened?".
"Just some doctor was hitting on me, nothing happened don't worry it was just annoying".
"I know nothing would happen. I trust you, John".
"Good", he sighed. Sherlock saw him look down at his feet when he said "I miss you".
Sherlock grinned. "Look up".
John looked up. "What?".
"Look to your left".
John looked to his left and was met with Sherlock's twinkling eyes. Automatically he made his way over to him with a grin on his face. He enveloped him with a quick hug and kept his hands on his waist when he moved away. "Why didn't you tell me you were here, darling?".
Sherlock blushed. "I was doing work".
"Yes work", Greg scoffed. "We're waiting for someone to wake up". John let go of Sherlock and smiled at Greg. "You alright, mate?".
"Yeah I'm fine", he smiled. "You think you can get us into this woman's room?".
"The man's on his break", Sally argued. "Let him rest".
"How do you know I'm on a break?", John cocked his eyebrow.
"I told them", Sherlock rushed out. "She asked why you were calling me and I said you always call on your break".
"Ah well, my break is almost over anyways so let's go. What room is it?".
"Room 204. The previous doctor said she should wake up in about an hour and that was half an hour ago", Lestrade told them.
"Well I can't make her wake up faster but I can give you access to the room so you can catch her before she leaves".
"That sounds good, John. Let's go". Sherlock took John's hand and guided them down the hall.
