Mycroft POV
I grumbled as I got out of the black car that pulled in front of 211B baker street. I saw the lights from inside. I straightened my coat and walked up the steps to my brother's flat. I knocked first and waited for the door. I counted the seconds til the door opened. 7 seconds.
"Mycroft, I wasn't expecting you to come." John said in surprise. I gave a wave and a smile to be polite. The second I walked past him my smile vanished. Where was my brother? I looked around, he was in the kitchen, the table was clean and Sherlock was putting plates out. I was severely confused. I even couldn't think for a moment. Of course my mind was racing again. I looked around for solutions to why my brother was actually doing work. I found no solutions. I sighed in my head, not letting my weakness be known to the world. I walked over and sat in my brother's usual chair. I scanned the room once more and noticed Mrs. Hudson and Gregory Lestrade, Detective inspector from the Scotland Yard had joined us. I instantly started making predictions. Of course I wasn't as good as my brother from a deducing stand point, but I still knew enough. DI Lestrade had just gotten off a long shift of work. He was tired, but still came to this dinner, which means he has nowhere else to spend it. His eyes had large bags under them but he still gave a genuine smile and laugh whenever someone made a joke. For some reason this amused me. Humans were never interesting but this one was special. I sighed and figured I'd introduce myself. After all I knew him, but he had never met me once. I walked over and greeted him.
"Greetings. I am Mycroft Holmes." I said holding out my hand. Gregory shook it and smiled.
"Nice to meet ya! Sherlock has told me about you." He said lightly, still smiling. I was surprised but didn't show it. I wasn't used to warm greetings. Usually people found me unsettling or felt I was using my power over them. Which was usually true, but that's beside the point. I returned the smile, but to my own surprise it was completely genuine. I felt my face get warm but I quickly returned to my ice glare. I decided chatting with DI Lestrade was the best use of time.
After about an hour of talking, joking, and to my absolute disgust, enjoyment, Dinner was called by Mrs. Hudson. We sat around the table filled with many foods. I preferred sweets myself, so I didn't eat much. I rolled my eyes as Sherlock and John stole glances at each other and kept quickly getting away. I would by lying if I didn't say I was happy for Sherlock. While I always say feelings are a disadvantage (And they are) I couldn't help but wonder what it was like. To be in love that is. I shook the thought from my head. Love would greatly affect my work.
Dinner was over and I quickly thanked my brother for the meal. I couldn't help but be upset about leaving. As much as I hated to admit it, I had fun. I walked over to the door and grabbed my coat. As I was about to leave Detective Inspector Lestrade stopped me.
"Hey Mycroft!" He said as he walked over to me.
"Yes Mr. Lestrade?" I asked, genuinely curious.
"Oh, call me Greg, I only get called Lestrade at work." He said. For some reason I felt extremely happy at his recommendation.
"Alright then Gregory. What do you need?" I asked. He handed me a piece of paper with a phone number on it.
"What's this?" I asked, severely confused. Had Greg been set up by an agent?
"It's my number doofus!" He said, punching me in the shoulder then walking over to Sherlock and John. I was dumbfounded. His number? Why on earth would he want me to call him? I sighed, shook my head, and then left.
