"Ooh, Sherlock, over here!", Molly cries out. "I found the most perfect bush with the reddest, biggest, juiciest strawberries!"
Sherlock sighs, yet can't help but smile at her enthusiasm as he makes his way over to Molly. They have been engaged for a few months, and he had made a promise to take her strawberry picking when the season began. It was one of her favorite activities to do with her father when she was a little girl and remains so to this day. Her favorite food is strawberry pancakes, which of course they plan on making with a select few of these red treasures once they get them home.
"Wow these do look better", he remarks as he stands by her. Chuckling as she tries to reach one she wants, he kisses her head and reaches above her to pick it. "Hmm, I think I like this one", he teases as he pops it into his own basket.
"Hey! That's not fair!"
Sherlock lets out his deep, jolly laugh as he looks down at her sun-kissed cheeks. The sun drenches them within its warmth and her eyes sparkle like golden honey as she peers up at him.
"Molly, we are going back to the same house, it really doesn't matter you know."
She pouts and chuckles softly. "I know..."
"C'mon. We have to fill up these baskets, right?"
"Yes, and you're already sweating", she laughs. "Though I must say you look extremely sexy in a polo and cargo shorts. The disheveled, damp curls really make the look."
"This heatwave is ridiculous, and also I feel so out of place."
"Never. Especially not with me. Regardless of what you're wearing. But just admit, they are comfy, no?"
"Well...yes."
"I told you so!"
"Okay okay", he smiles and plucks a few more berries off the vines, piling them into his basket. He runs a hand through his damp curls, taking a breath, the heat getting to him.
They move through a few aisles of vines, Molly directing them towards the best bushes of strawberries, and Sherlock following her without question. She smiles softly at a couple of little kids, a little boy and little girl fighting over who's is the best strawberry. They look to be about five. Stooping to their level, Molly smiles and looks at both baskets.
"Oh come on now, you guys don't want to fight in such a happy place, do you? I think both of your baskets look amazing. They are equally great."
They bite their lips and nod slowly. "I guess so", they say in unison.
Molly grins. "Want to know a secret? The best bush is right down there at the end. You'll both get the best ones", she winks. The kids gasp and take off running towards the end of the row and she chuckles softly, standing back up. She notices Sherlock staring at her in awe.
Blushing softly, she smiles and pecks his lips. "Yes?"
"Nothing, you just...knew how to get them to stop fighting."
"They're little, pretty easy. Just convince them then distract them with something else."
"Well, you're very good with...children. I suppose I knew that, especially when we see Rosie, she adores you."
"She adores you too, Sherlock."
"Yes, but you know what to do with her more than I do", he snorts.
"Oh I dunno, she's becoming a bit of a mini-Mary. I'm sure you'll get on better as she gets older."
"Possibly. But you're a natural."
"Thanks", she blushes.
"Mhh", he nods, looking at her for a moment before picking some more berries for his basket.
After a few moments, he hears squeals of panic come from Molly. He immediately turns towards her and sees her cowering with her hands flailing around above her head. Then he sees the big fluffy bumblebee circling her head.
"Molly, Molly, calm down, it only bothers the insect more. Just stay still, hm?" Sherlock goes over and happens to capture it in his hands. "There we go."
Molly gapes and steps away, scared. "I hate bugs! I am not scared of much, but I hate bugs!"
He smiles softly and opens his hands slightly. "This is a bumblebee. They very rarely sting. I know the buzzing can be intimidating, but they just pollinate things. They're worker bees."
Molly shudders and bites her lip. "It won't sting?"
"Nope", he says, popping the 'p'. "I promise."
She inches closer to him, peeking into his hands and seeing the fuzzy bee crawling around confused. "It's still...creepy."
Sherlock laughs softly. "I like bees. They're a big part of life. Did I ever tell you that my middle school science project was all about bees?"
Looking at him quizzically she nibbles one of her strawberries. "No..."
"It was. One of my favorite projects. They are very interesting creatures, and they do a lot, especially for the chain of events that leads to us eating fresh food."
"I suppose so. But I'm not holding it."
Chuckling, he releases the bee onto a leaf and kisses her cheek. "I won't make you. Now, hornets are another issue. Those little bastards don't deserve to exist. They're plain evil."
Molly bursts out laughing a moment later. "I just thought of something."
"What?"
"Well, you are like the bumblebee. A hard worker, determined, intimidating, but ultimately fluffy and good for the world. Whereas Moriarty and basically any criminal you go against was and is a hornet. Evil, deceitful, existing only to cause chaos and hurt."
He smirks and nods. "That's one way to understand it. But I'm male, and worker bees are female. Also, you still enjoy holding me, no?", he teases.
"Of course I do!", she giggles. "Oh, I am so looking forward to Halloween. "You'll be a bee and I'll be a ladybug. It'll be great!"
"Oh God what did I put into your head?", he groans.
Molly laughs and hugs his arm. "You're my busy little bee, aren't youuu?"
"Mollyyy, shhh", he turns red.
She laughs gleefully and looks up at him happily. Leaning close into her ear he murmurs deeply. "The male bumblebee's main function is to mate with and fertilize the queen."
This time it's Molly's turn to turn as red as the strawberries in her basket. "Hmm well...", she clears her throat. "Looks like we have full baskets…erm…we better get going."
Smirking devilishly he nods in agreement, "Mhh, I quite agree. I can't wait to do my job as a 'busy little bee'."
"Sherlock!", she elbows his side, eliciting a groan and a small laugh from him.
"Well, we know how amazing you are with children, and y'know...we are engaged, Molls."
They check out with their prized berries and head to her little car. "Does that mean what I think that means?"
"If you want it to..."
She turns towards him once they are settled into the car and takes his hand. "You want kids? I-I mean...we should have talked about it sooner, but I loved you regardless and-"
Cutting her off with a soft but passionate kiss, he strokes her cheek before pulling back gently and looking into her eyes. "With you, I would. They would have the best mother."
Tears form in her eyes a bit and she slings her arms around his neck, hugging him close for a moment.
"We better get home and become busy little bees then, huh?"
He grins brightly and smirks. "Hell yes, future Mrs. Holmes."
The next morning Molly wakes up to the most pleasant smell wafting from her kitchen. 'Their kitchen', she mentally corrects herself. Slipping her dressing gown around her nude body and slippers on her bare feet, she makes her way down to the kitchen and grins, seeing Sherlock standing there in boxers and an open dressing gown, flipping pancakes, remnants of multiple gutted strawberries on the counter.
"Mmm, it smells divine love."
Sherlock turns around and smiles at her. "Good morning. I hope you slept well."
"Mhm, very very well after our…shall I say, 'buzzing hive' last night", she smirks cutely.
He snorts and chuckles. "Still with the bee references, eh?"
"Oh come on, it's funny, I'm funny."
"Are you? I haven't noticed."
"Take that back!", she laughs and tosses a dish towel at him.
"Hey careful of my masterpieces, huh!? They are for you!"
"Oh fineee. They look delicious by the way", she licks her lips in anticipation.
"Thanks. So do you think we created a littlest busy bee?"
Molly giggles. "Well obviously I don't know, but I hope so. I know I will enjoy proceeding to try too though until it's certain. They'll certainly be the sweetest strawberry in the whole patch", she answers, continuing to drag out the references jokingly.
He grins brightly and flips the pancakes onto their plates. He walks over to her and kisses her, splaying a nimble hand across her abdomen. "Mmm...sorry I'm late with the good morning kiss. But I'm sure you'd have had my head if I burned those."
Smiling on his lips she nods a bit. "Probably. You know, if we do have a little one, you can share all your knowledge of bees with."
"Yes, as well as many other things..."
"Nothing morbid Sherlock. Not as a child!"
"That means you too then!"
"Ugh, touché", she scoffs playfully.
"Well, there is one thing that's absolute with all of this at least."
"And what would that be?", Molly asks with a mouth half full of strawberry pancakes and whipped cream.
Sherlock puts a forkful into his own mouth and swallows. "Mmm. Well, they will have an undeniable love of strawberry pancakes if their mother eats them this often."
Molly laughs and blushes, a bit of whipped cream on her lip. Sherlock leans over and strokes it off, pecking her lips lovingly.
"They'd better!", she exclaims happily, returning to her plate hungrily and reveling in the giddiness it gave her to be in that moment with the love of her life.
