John and Sherlock sat in their apartment bored. As Sherlock had said about a million times that morning, they had probably solved every case in London! John had locked away the gun luckily for the wall and Mrs Hudson as he looked at the many gun holes in the wall Sherlock had made in the past. Sherlock had his trusty violin in his arms and was beginning to play.
"Do you have to do that?!" John moaned, as he didn't look up from this morning's paper, which he had read twice.
"Unless there is something in that paper. I would say not John." Sherlock mumbled strumming the strings.
"Don't want a quiz about the galaxy then?" John smirked, knowing this would make Sherlock bounce off the walls.
Sherlock didn't even respond. John could see from his face that he didn't appreciate that remark. Sherlock stopped strumming as several sirens went past the window. None of them stopped. Sherlock carefully put his violin down running his fingers through his hair.
"Bored. Bored. Bored." Sherlock kept repeating, showing off how bored he was to John.
"I know you're bored Sherlock and if I could do something about it I would. Unless Lestrade comes running up those stairs you'll have to wait." John kept saying to try and calm down his flatmate.
"Do you know where Lestrade is?" Sherlock suddenly thought.
"Not at this exact moment no. Why?"
Sherlock jumped out of his seat and walked towards the phone in the kitchen. John folded his paper closed and watched as Sherlock put a number in.
"What are you doing?" John finally asked, puzzled as to what Sherlock wanted to speak to Lestrade for.
"Lestrade John. He must be somewhere." Sherlock said somewhat dismissively.
"And you think Anderson or Donovan will give you that information?!"
"No they won't but they won't be in will they. If I get through to reception then they'll tell you everything." Sherlock said, smiling all too creepily.
John sighed loudly. He couldn't believe Sherlock was so bored that he would actually phone for a case. True it had been a very slow morning.
"Yes hello. Is Detective inspector Lestrade there?" Sherlock got through to someone.
John waited with baited breath to hear the answer.
"He isn't alright thank you. Is Anderson or Donovan there?"
Sherlock's face smiled even brighter. John got up from his seat ready to leave to wherever Sherlock was going to send them. Sherlock's face then dropped and he waved at John to stop. John watched to see why Sherlock's smile had suddenly gone.
"What's the matter?" John mouthed to Sherlock.
"So how long has the inspector been missing from the crime scene?" Sherlock asked letting John know what was going on.
"Missing?" John raised an eyebrow.
Detective inspector Lestrade was very protective of his crime scenes. He only just about let John get into them the first time they met. So him missing from a crime scene, without Sherlock being involved, was very concerning.
"Yes thank you. We'll keep a lookout." Sherlock ended the call, he sounded a bit worried which was different.
"Lestrade's missing?" John made sure he had heard right.
"Yes didn't you hear." Sherlock went back to his seat.
"Yes I did. How on earth would Lestrade be missing from the crime scene?"
"Who knows." Sherlock sighed, sitting back down with a huff.
John stood at the doorway puzzled. He knew that Sherlock was bored sitting down so how come they weren't out there looking for Lestrade? He threw the coat on the coathanger thinking that they might be staying a bit longer.
"So you're not going to look for him?" John asked, trying to gauge Sherlock's thoughts.
"Nope. If he wants to be found then he'll show up. Maybe he's seen something and wandered off." Sherlock shrugged.
More sirens went past. Either they were going to the crime scene or they were looking for the wayward inspector. There was then a knock at the door which sounded urgent.
"Mrs Hudson!" John and Sherlock shouted down.
There were footsteps coming from downstairs as Mrs Hudson rushed past. They then heard the door open and some inaudible conversation. Then a familiar face appeared at the doorway.
"Hello freak." Donovan said leaning against the doorway.
"Hello Donovan." Sherlock sighed frowning.
Before the conversation could go any further, another hated face appeared up the stairs.
"Anderson." John met before Sherlock could curse or throw them out.
"John." Anderson nodded and didn't even acknowledge Sherlock.
Sherlock crossed his legs angrily. Both officers didn't get along with Sherlock and they all made this known to anyone they bumped into. John had got this argument more times then he cared to count!
"What do we owe the pleasure?" John tried to keep things light.
"We're looking for Lestrade. I'm sure you've already heard." Anderson said in Sherlock's direction.
Sherlock rolled his eyes in Anderson's direction.
"We have. Any idea where he is?" John asked Anderson before he could get into a fight with Sherlock.
"Would we be here otherwise? We have no idea where he is." Donovan answered.
"Well we'll be sure to notify you if we do see him. Now if you'll excuse us." Sherlock tried to show them out of the door.
John quickly stopped him however.
"Sherlock be nice. We'll keep an eye out for you. Hope you find him." John said sensing more tension.
Anderson and Donovan made their goodbyes to John only and then left. John turned to Sherlock crossing his arms. There were more footsteps coming up the stairs as John made a cup of tea.
"What did Sally want?" Mrs Hudson smiled.
"They're looking for Lestrade. They were asking us if we'd seen him." John answered before Sherlock could make some snide remark.
"Oh no. I'm sure he'll turn up." Mrs Hudson said, biting her nails. She didn't know Lestrade too well but knew how much he had to put up with Sherlock over the years.
"We hope so. Now Mrs Hudson would you like a cup of tea?" John asked, going to the kitchen.
Sherlock watched Donovan and Anderson leave. He might not like Anderson or Donovan but he knew how loyal they were to Lestrade and he respected that. He heard Mrs Hudson head down with his cup of tea as John came in yawning.
"Bored John?" Sherlock made fun of John.
John made a face and ignored Sherlock. Sherlock then saw a flash of black from some sort of coat just outside the door.
"John did we leave the door open?" Sherlock asked.
"I don't know. You'd have to ask Mrs Hudson why?" John loudly sipped his cuppa.
"No reason but I think we might have a visitor."
"A visitor? What are you talking about?"
Before Sherlock could answer that question, rapid footsteps came up the stairs. It obviously wasn't Mrs Hudson as she would call for some help before coming up the stairs.
"Who…" John started to say before being shushed by Sherlock.
Sherlock stood on the other side of the doorway just in case the person was any trouble to them. John moved himself so he couldn't be seen easily.
"Sherlock?" A familiar voice said coming into the apartment somewhat slurred.
Sherlock and John watched as a bedraggled person came through the doorway.
"Inspector?" Sherlock met him with a worried look.
"I need your help.." Lestrade struggled to say before falling into Sherlock's arms.
