Molly was just adding the pasta to the boiling water for her fettuccine Alfredo when the doorbell rang.
Ah, that would be Allison and her son, Archie, right on time, she thought.
"Can you get the door please, Sherlock?" she asked her husband, who had just placed Victoria in her high chair.
He nodded and soon returned with their visitors.
"So glad you could make it," said Molly warmly to Allison, walking around the kitchen island to offer a hug, while Archie immediately approached a curious Victoria.
He bent forward to take one of her small hands in his. "Hello Victoria. Do you remember me? I'm Archie."
Victoria gave him a toothy little grin.
"Thanks for inviting us. It smells delicious," said Allison to Molly. She looked over at Sherlock. "Archie has been talking nonstop since we left home about seeing those crime scene pictures."
"After dinner, I will get out my laptop," said Sherlock. "I have accrued quite a collection of photographs from many crime scenes over the years, not just my own investigations."
"I can't wait, Mr. Holmes," said Archie enthusiastically. "I've already decided I want to be a detective with the Metropolitan Police when I grow up. Then I'll get to see crime scenes all the time."
Molly couldn't help but smile at his enthusiasm. She wondered if Sherlock had been as excited about such things at the same age, what had drawn him to the same field. Had he considered going the traditional route and becoming a detective inspector as well, or had he always wanted to solve crimes on his own terms? She'd have to ask. Even after two years of marriage, there were still plenty of things they had to learn about one another.
"If that is your interest, you should speak to Detective Inspector Lestrade and get guidance," suggested Sherlock.
"That's the man playing Peter, isn't it?" asked Archie.
"Yes, indeed," affirmed Sherlock.
Archie nodded. "I'll do that."
"Go ahead and sit at the table," Molly invited, gesturing at the dining table, which Was already set.
A few minutes later, the adults were eating fettuccine Alfredo while Archie and Victoria were enjoying more kid-friendly fare - chicken nuggets and chips.
"This is amazing," declared Allison, as she twirled some pasta around her fork. "I've never heard of an Alfredo with bacon and vegetables in it. Usually, it's just the sauce and sometimes pieces of chicken. Where did you find the recipe?"
Molly smiled. "From an online friend in America. She recommended using bacon, peppers, onions and mushrooms, so I tried it myself and liked the result. I make it more often now that I'm not just cooking for myself."
Her eyes met Sherlock's. He really enjoyed her cooking, and she loved taking care of him. She still recalled the first time she had made fettuccine Alfredo for him, on an occasion during their engagement when she had invited her mother for the meal as well. He had 'helped' her in her preparations by grating parmesan cheese. She had neglected to tell him how much she needed, and he had dutifully grated the entire block of cheese. He had also proclaimed that her efforts were superior to the fettuccine Alfredo at Angelo's, which had meant a lot to her.
When their meals were finished, Sherlock took care of cleaning Victoria's hands and face while Molly put away the leftovers and stacked the dishes in the dishwasher. Allison insisted on helping her wash the things that would not go in the dishwasher.
"I'm going to take Archie upstairs to the spare room," said Sherlock with a meaningful look at Molly. He knew she wanted to have some private time with Allison. Two nights earlier, during the practice for the play she and Sherlock were producing for church, in which Archie was participating, Molly had sensed Allison needed someone to confide in. This, combined with the fact that Sherlock had promised Archie years earlier to share some crime scene pictures with him, led Molly to invite the two of them for dinner this evening.
Molly still didn't know Allison very well. Almost two months earlier, the woman had visited their church with Archie. Archie had been delighted to see Sherlock again, and he had immediately reminded Sherlock of a promise he had apparently made years earlier, when the boy had been asked to be page boy at John and Mary's wedding, to show him photos of crime scenes.
Allison had shared that she was looking for a new church and had been searching for one for months to make a new start with her son. She had shared her sad tale of her husband, after a number of years of marriage, issuing an ultimatum - that she stop attending church or he would leave her. When she had said she would not choose between him and God, he had followed through with his threat. Molly felt especially sympathetic, because she knew that if Sherlock had not become a believer himself and had made the same demand, she would have been forced to let him go. Her faith was the cornerstone of her life and not something she would ever be willing to compromise for the sake of human love. Allison's sad tale had highlighted to Molly how blessed she was that Sherlock had been open to learning about her beliefs and had come to his own acceptance of them. Their shared faith bonded them in a way that no mere physical one could. It was a spiritual bond, as well as a physical and emotional connection.
After doing the washing up, Molly took Victoria from her high chair, and the women went into the front room.
She changed Victoria's nappy and was about to set her down into the playpen, when Allison asked, "Do you think I could hold her for a minute?"
"Of course you can." Molly smiled warmly at Allison and set Victoria on her lap.
Fortunately, Victoria did not protest, and Allison gave her a little cuddle. "Oh, Molly. She is such a beautiful little girl. I would have loved to have a daughter of my own." Her face clouded, and Molly remembered Allison telling her about the miscarriage she had suffered soon after her husband left her. That unplanned pregnancy had been one of the catalysts for his desertion.
"I'm so sorry, Allison. Maybe your husband will have a change of heart and return to you. Sherlock and I have been keeping you in our prayers."
Tears sprang to Allison's eyes. "Oh," she managed in a choked voice, "he's not coming back, Molly. He's moved on with someone else."
Molly's mouth dropped open. "I don't know what to say except that I'm sorry again. Like I said on Wednesday, if you want to talk about it, I think I'm a pretty good listener."
Victoria, obviously bored at just sitting on Allison's lap, struggled, and Molly picked her up, depositing her in her playpen so she could play with her toys.
A tear trickled down Allison's cheek. "You definitely seem the kind of person who inspires confidences, and I really haven't had anyone to talk to."
Molly sat beside her and patted her hand sympathetically, then waited. She knew how important it was to not rush a person into speaking.
A few more tears fell before Allison regained control and she began to speak. "Well, it's like this. I know I told you about trying to make a new start with Archie. I've been so proud of him, the way he has handled the breakup. I explained that his daddy wasn't a Christian, and that he left because he couldn't accept that God was an important part of my life. It surprises me how mature Archie has become in his faith, even as an eleven-year-old. He has never blamed me, but he has become the man of the house, saying he wishes his daddy knew Jesus." She gave a sad sort of smile. "Ed hasn't even come by to see Archie since we separated. It's out of sight, out of mind for him, I guess."
Allison paused to sniffle, and Molly reached over to the coffee table to pluck a tissue from the box, handing it to her. "Is that why you don't think your husband will come back to you?"
Allison sighed and wiped the tears on her face, then blew her nose before answering. "No. I was still hoping he'd change his mind, realise he missed us. But last week he contacted me. He told me he met a woman who gives him all the time he needs, and that he is moving in with her." Her face crumpled and she let out a sob, then buried her face in her hands.
Molly reached to put her arm around the woman's shaking shoulders, allowing her to cry. There weren't really any words of comfort she could give. She knew she too would feel betrayed if Sherlock left her and took up with another woman.
Finally, Allison lifted her head. "That's not even the worst of it, Molly. He asked me to initiate divorce proceedings."
Molly gave her a confused look. "Why do you have to do the filing if he's the one who wants the divorce?"
Allison drew in a deep breath and exhaled. "There are only two reasons you can initiate a divorce when a separation has been less than two years. Those are for adultery or abuse. Obviously, he can't be the one to file for divorce because he is the one who left me, so he has asked me to do it. I never expected I would ever be in this position. God hates divorce."
"Oh, I didn't know that about separation." Molly chose her words carefully. "And yes, God hates divorce. Marriage is a serious commitment that is supposed to reflect the perfect union between God and his chosen people, the church. All too often these days, it seems people get married just for the legal benefits and God doesn't even enter the picture."
Allison nodded. "That's true. It seems celebrities are always getting married, divorced and remarried without really understanding the commitment. It's like they get married just so it puts a legitimate spin on the fact that they are having sex with someone." Her expression returned to being troubled. "And now it seems I am to become one of those statistics of a failed marriage. I feel like I've disappointed God if I file for divorce."
Molly chewed on her lower lip, thinking. 
, she prayed silently. How ironic it was that only months earlier she had been seeking God's guidance in how to respond with wisdom to the news her friend Kaitlyn had shared, that she had had an abortion at the age of nineteen. Once again, Molly felt it was important to show compassion in a difficult situation. In this case, there was definitely Biblical instruction regarding divorce and in what circumstances it was considered permissible. Even so, Molly knew she had no right to sit in judgment upon others for their choices. In this instance however, it was pretty clear that Allison was the wronged, innocent party.
She finally spoke, choosing her words with considered care. "Allison, I do not believe in your case that filing for divorce would be wrong, or that God would condemn you for it, even though I'm sure it always grieves Him when something like this happens. The Bible states clear examples where divorce is permitted, and one of them is when there is marital unfaithfulness. Whatever you decide to do, Sherlock and I will support you and keep you in our prayers."
"You have no idea how much that means to me. I'm terrified to tell my mum, though. She was raised in the Catholic church and has pretty strong views on divorce. If I get a divorce, she's going to be disappointed with me."
"I do think it's good that the Catholic church places such a high value on marriage. I wish more people took it that seriously. But I also believe that as humans we will not always succeed in upholding the values that are taught in the Bible. We're all sinners. If you get a divorce, it isn't the end of the world, nor will God condemn you for it. But I do suggest you speak to Pastor Briggs and receive some counselling first, as well as pray for God's guidance in your situation. I would hope and pray too that your mother would love you whatever decision you make."
Allison bit her lip. "I hope so, but my mum has had some pretty nasty things to say about people she has known who have been divorced. I suppose there will be people out there who will judge me if I go ahead with it."
Molly took another tissue from the box and handed it to Allison so she could blow her nose. "I think it's very easy for people to cast judgment on others when they have not been in the same situation. But you are not answerable to people with whom your decisions have no bearing. God can see your heart and that you truly want to do what is right for you and Archie as well, and He will show you the way. God doesn't hold grudges about our past sins when we repent and seek forgiveness. If that were the case, we'd have to ask forgiveness for the same things continuously. I don't believe God wants us to live in a constant state of guilt and unworthiness, but to understand His grace and be thankful for it."
Allison nodded. "I appreciate your words, and I will definitely speak with Pastor Briggs as well before making any decision. I have to speak to Archie about it as well."
Molly squeezed Allison's hand, which was holding the crumpled tissue, gently. She hoped her words had helped to comfort Allison, and to reassure her that God would be with her, no matter what. "How about a nice cup of tea?" she asked.
"That would be lovely. Thank you."
Molly was glad to see Allison was regaining her composure.
She made tea for both of them and returned to the front room. Victoria had obviously grown tired of doing her block puzzle and was happily occupied in hitting the buttons on her xylophone.
Molly handed a cup of tea to Allison and asked, "So, Archie is eleven; he'll be starting secondary school next month?"
By her smile, Molly knew Allison was glad for the change in topic. "Yes. He's really looking forward to it. He's determined to do well in school so he can become a police detective inspector. Ever since he met Sherlock, he has wanted to go into the field of law enforcement and crime-solving. He really looks up to your husband, still follows John's blog avidly to find out about their latest cases."
The sound of footsteps coming down the stairs alerted them that Sherlock and Archie had apparently finished looking at pictures.
Archie burst into the room, beaning. "Mum, I can't wait till I'm old enough to be a detective!"
Sherlock appeared in the doorway. "The lad's got a talent for observation," he said. "He asked some very intelligent questions on various crime scene images I showed him. The Yard could certainly use more people with an eye for detail."
"Archie's chest puffed out with pride at the compliment.
"I'm glad you enjoyed spending time with Mr. Holmes," said Allison with a smile. She turned to Molly, setting her now empty cup down on the coffee table. "Thanks for the talk, Molly. I'm definitely going to take your advice. I think Archie and I need to go home now and discuss a few things."
Molly nodded. "I'm glad we were able to talk."
"Can I say goodbye to Victoria?" asked Archie. "She's the prettiest baby I ever saw. I was going to be a big brother last year, Mum said, but then something happened and Dad was shouting at Mum and he left. And now I'm not going to be a big brother anymore." His face fell, and Molly noticed the pained expression on Allison's face.
Sherlock put a hand on Archie's shoulder. "I'm very sorry to hear that, son. You must be good to your mother. You're the man of the house now."
Archie nodded solemnly, while Sherlock leaned into the playpen to extract Victoria.
Goodbyes were exchanged, and Sherlock offered to hail a taxi for them. Allison declined the offer, saying they would just take the Tube, which was the way they had come.
"Can I accompany you both to the train station?" asked Sherlock solicitously.
"I can take care of Mum, and it isn't dark yet," said Archie, taking his mother's arm.
Molly was pleased that Sherlock had made the offer, and they watched their visitors until they turned a corner, then returned inside.
As soon as they were back inside, Victoria, who was still being held by Sherlock, demanded, "Down," and he returned her to the playpen.
Molly sat back down on the sofa and Sherlock joined her, placing his arm around her. "Sounds like you and Allison had a good chat?" he enquired.
"We did. She's going through a tough time. Her husband wants her to file for divorce, I guess, so he can move on with his new girlfriend." She raised her head to look at him. "Did you know that you have to be separated for two years if you want to file for divorce, unless you are the injured party who has either been abused or cheated on? Apparently, that's why Allison's husband has asked her to do it, because he has no grounds to file for divorce, and it has been less than two years."
Sherlock nodded. "I was aware of that, thanks to Greg. I remember when he finally realised his wife was never going to be faithful to him, that he mentioned at least he didn't have to wait two years longer after they separated before he could file for his divorce."
Molly linked the fingers of her right hand with Sherlocks left, feeling the wedding band on his finger. "It's always sad to see a marriage end, but I guess sometimes it's unavoidable, especially when one partner has been unfaithful. I'm so grateful that we share the same values as well as commitment. I know that when Victoria is older, in fact with any of our children, I will certainly be advocating that they look for a partner who is also a Christian. Too often it seems that when couples are unequally yoked, problems arise. I think that our marriage is blessed because we include God in it."
His fingers tightened on hers, and he bent his head to brush his lips against hers briefly. "I wholeheartedly agree. Sometimes I look back at the way I was when I didn't believe, and I think I was such an idiot."
Molly shook her head. "I don't think you were an idiot. You were just ignorant about the Bible and what it teaches. You still had an inner core of morality and good judgment, which is something a lot of people lack. I feel like even when you were not a believer, God was still watching over you, preparing you for when you would become a Christian. I guess, in a way, God was preparing you for me."
He smiled and lifted her hand, brushing a kiss to her knuckles. "Once again, I would have to agree with you." He lifted her hand further to kiss her wrist. She let out a little sigh of contentment.
Sherlock brought his mouth to hers for another kiss before saying, "So, what is Allison going to do?"
"Well, I suggested she talk to Pastor Briggs first. I definitely feel some counselling is important before making such a big step. To me, it sounds as if her husband has no intention of returning, that he has been unfaithful. That would indicate she has sound Biblical reasons to proceed with a divorce."
"I suppose that explains why, in that dream you had where we were married at a much younger age and then separated, that we never actually went through with a divorce."
She gave a slight smile. "I guess so. Mind you, the Bible does also say that if an unbelieving spouse leaves, to let them go. So I guess that would also be acceptable grounds for a divorce. I know there are so many interpretations about what is and what isn't acceptable, but I guess in my heart, I believe that infidelity and abuse are definitely grounds for it. I really feel for people in that situation, and I'm glad I don't have to go through that." She peeped up at Sherlock. "That is unless you decide to leave me for some reason."
They both knew she was teasing, but Sherlock still pulled her closer against him to kiss her before saying softly in her ear, "I think I have demonstrated quite clearly almost every night and often more than once a day, that I am completely besotted with you and always will be."
She batted her eyelashes at him. "My short term memory is atrocious. I guess you will have to prove it to me again tonight."
The smouldering look he gave her made her shiver with anticipation. "I'd show you right now if it weren't for our daughter."
Molly looked over at the playpen, realising that all was quiet. "I think she might have fallen asleep." She disengaged from Sherlock to walk to the playpen, resting her hands on the top of it.
She was not surprised to see Victoria lying on her side, in between her toys, holding her Pusheen toy as usual. Her eyes were closed, lips slightly parted, breathing regularly in contented slumber.
She felt Sherlock's arms come about her from behind. "Ah, our princess is indeed asleep," he said quietly. "So, we have a dilemma. Do we wake her and get her ready for bed, or do I have my way with you first?" His voice was a husky whisper, and his hands moved to caress her abdomen.
Even as his lips moved to press kisses to her neck, Molly knew what he wanted. She attempted a weak, "We should probably wait until we are in bed and Victoria isn't in the same room, only a few feet away."
He snorted and raised a hand to possessively cup her breast through her blouse. "You talk nonsense, woman. Like that ever stopped us when we moved Victoria's cot into our bedroom at Baker Street." His fingers moved to the buttons of her blouse.
"Ah yes, good point," she murmured, waiting until he had finished unbuttoning her blouse before she turned in his embrace and began reciprocating the process with his shirt buttons.
The serious conversation about Allison lent an urgency to their movements, as if they were desperate to reassure one another that they would never be in a similar situation. Kisses and caresses were punctuated with whispered words of love and adoration.
Later that night, once Victoria was in her cot, Sherlock and Molly did their devotional reading for the day. Molly followed this with a prayer for Allison, that she would seek God's guidance on what was best for Archie and herself.
Sherlock echoed Molly's "Amen" and waited for her to turn off the light. Then he took her in his arms and kissed her tenderly. "I do believe God brought Allison to our church so that you could befriend her," he said, stroking her hair in the darkness. "One of the things I love about you is that you are always compassionate to others, no matter what the circumstances. You would have made a wonderful counsellor."
"I like my job, and I'm content to be a good friend. Anyway, if I'd gone into a different profession, we might never have met."
"Now, that would have been unacceptable," declared Sherlock. "I guess God knew what He was doing." His hand skimmed along the curve of her hip. "I know you have to be up early for work tomorrow, so are you planning on just going to sleep, seeing as we made love earlier?"
"Now, 
 would be unacceptable," said Molly, pulling his head down to hers for a lingering kiss that demonstrated the truth of her words. She was definitely on board for round number two with her devoted, most ardent husband.
 Having written the story about Kaitlyn, which I published in July last year, I decided to make a little sub-series, because this story and another to follow have the same theme of Molly listening to the troubles of a friend. I just feel Molly's personality invites confidence. She is approachable, with a heart of compassion for others. I know authors see her in a variety of ways, but this is my personal opinion and the way I will always write her.
You can find the chapter of Sherlock's first attempt in helping Molly with her dish in 
.
This story came about as a result of some criticism I received by some Catholic readers who have strong opinions on the ideas of divorce and remarriage. Everyone has a right to their own opinion, but Molly's views here are how I feel, and I do not believe a person should be punished for life for making a poor choice. I don't believe God would want us to live lives of misery because we made mistakes. God can use the worst circumstances and bring good out of it. I will also say I personally believe physical and mental abuse are valid reasons for separation and divorce,as well. I don't believe God would want us to remain in a toxic relationship that way. If you think God would want us to be miserable and trapped, you have a very different perception of God than I do, and that is your right. I am quite happy to agree to disagree.
I try to write stories that reflect real life issues and how we, as Christians, react to them. If your opinions differ, that's fine, but please don't criticize me for my beliefs. If you don't like them, go read the stories that have no moral value in them if it makes you feel more comfortable, or write your own story that reflects your personal values.
But for those of you who do find this story relatable and true-to-life, I'd love to hear from you.
I believe my writing here is my ministry, my calling from God to proclaim the truth of the Gospel, to offer hope to people who need hope. Any time I receive a word of encouragement, it provides assurance to me that I am making a positive difference in people's lives, offering something more than mere entertainment.
