Molly sniffles as she looks into the mirror, her scarlet red lips quivering and mascara running down her pale face. She blots it quickly with a tissue and takes a deep breath as she tops off her mascara once again, frustrated at herself for ruining it. Her hair is partially up in the most beautiful of ringlets, two standalone ones framing her face. Her late grandmother's pearl necklace adorns her neck and conforms to the curves of her collarbone delicately. It's lovely, but it only makes her think of her father even more, and how he won't be here to walk her down the aisle. Heaviness tugging at her heart, she gets up and once again looks over her body and the gorgeously white lace gown with a hint of sparkle that adorns it and molds to all of her curves, making her look ravishing.
She can't help but feel out of place and knows that women are supposed to be thrilled and excited on their wedding day. With bellies full of butterflies and pounding hearts within their chest. However, Molly holds nothing but a sharp pain of hesitancy and regret, added on top of all the sadness of her father being gone for so long. The one good thing about this occasion is that her best friend Meena is here all the way from Texas, and her brother took his leave from the Army at the perfect time so he could walk her down the aisle.
Meena comes back into the room and pouts, gently hugging her from behind. "Molly, you're absolutely stunning...why are you crying so much? And don't try telling me that its happy crying because I know what your happy crying looks like. We were drunk plenty in college and /this/ is not your happy cry."
Molly chuckles softly at the memories but looks down at her hands with a heavy sigh. "I-I am happy...or...I want to be happy. I thought I was happy...I-...I don't know."
"If you don't want to go through with the wedding, you don't have to. This is your life, nobody else's. It's a huge step. I know that you love him, but if you feel like you shouldn't do this, then maybe you shouldn't. You have to listen to what your heart is telling you."
"Yeah, but you came all the way from Texas to be here for me, and Matty only gets leave every few years..."
"Molls, I told you, this is /your/ life. This is about you, not us. You are the one who has to live with whatever happens today. I know that you always think of everyone else before yourself, but today you have to think about you and only you." Meena turns her to face her. "I love you, you're my best friend, and I know you've had a lot of trouble with relationships, but you are one of the most incredible women I have ever known. I mean that. I want you to marry a man that deserves you, a man that you can see yourself growing old with. Are you sure it's him?"
Swallowing the lump in her throat, Molly shrugs a bit. She thinks about how much she wants a family, and how she's getting older. "Yeah…I mean...yeah, I think so."
"Then...there you go."
Hearing the organ start to play, Molly takes a breath and steadies her shaky hands. Meena smiles softly and hands her the bouquet. "By the way, these burgundy dresses make my caramel skin look absolutely amazing, so thanks for the great color choice in bridesmaid dresses", she giggles.
Molly grins and nudges her. "Oh please, you're always gorgeous, Meena. Now, come, let's get me hitched, hm?"
They chuckle and head out to the back of the aisle, waiting for the doors to open. Matty grins at her and takes her arm, kissing her temple. "I love you, Moll. I'm so happy for you, and I know Dad would be too. You deserve to be happy after everything you've done, especially for me. I'm grown now, and it's time for you to have what you always wanted."
Tearing up, she looks up at him and smiles softly. "Love you too, Matty. Now, don't make me cry again."
He smiles and then raises an eyebrow. "Again?"
Before she can answer, the doors swing open and suddenly she is walking down the aisle, her feet feeling like cinder blocks. It's certainly not the floating feeling she imagined, or how Meena described her wedding day.
Once at the altar, Meena and Mary Watson, whom Molly had asked to be a bridesmaid as well, adjusts her dress train and stands next to where she will be. Matthew kisses her hand then gently hands her off, stepping away.
Looking at her hand in his, she strokes it gently before averting her eyes up to his face, his eyes are bright, and his curls tamed. A smile spreads across his face, making his jawline more visible. Molly smiles softly, trying to keep the hesitancy in her own eyes from showing. She scans the church, noticing how thin her side is, and multiple empty seats.
After a few readings, it's time for vows and they join hands. Molly tries to ignore how hers are trembling within his bigger ones, but he squeezes them gently in reassurance, grinning down at her. The priest begins, and turns to his left first, then his right.
"Thomas and Margaret, have you come here to enter into Marriage without coercion, freely and wholeheartedly?"
Molly keeps her eyes fixed on Tom, trying to read him and ignore the screaming voice in her head.
"I have", they answer in unison.
"Are you prepared, as you follow the path of Marriage, to love and honor each other for as long as you both shall live?"
"Are you prepared to accept children lovingly from God and to bring them up according to the law of Christ and his Church?"
"We are", they answer. Molly's voice wavers slightly.
The priest nods and begins the vows. "Thomas, do you take Margaret for your lawful wife, to have and to hold from this day forward, for better, for worse, for richer, for poorer, in sickness and in health, until death do you part?
Tom grins and strokes his thumbs over Molly's palms. "I do."
Margaret, do you take Thomas for your lawful husband, to have and to hold from this day forward, for better, for worse, for richer, for poorer, in sickness and in health, until death do you part?
Molly opens her mouth to speak, and nothing comes out. She clears her throat and tries again, but no sound comes out. Tom furrows his brow in worry.
"Molly...it's your turn", he whispers.
She opens her mouth to respond yet again, but there is suddenly a ruckus at the back of the church, followed by yelling.
"What the f-" , Tom mutters, but stops himself, as the priest gives him a look.
Molly feels a bit faint, like she is in a crazy movie as she sees Sherlock Holmes barreling down the aisle at warp speed, Tom's family gasping and grumbling and trying to block him.
Pushing through people, Sherlock makes his way over to the aisle and points at the priest. "I OBJECT to this marriage! Not that you had the decency to add that in this time, I see."
Tuning to Molly he looks her over and his eyes widen a bit, his eyes noticeably dilating the way she had seen when he needed her help faking his death. "Wow...look I know you're probably mad at me right now, and frankly you have every right to be, but you can't marry him. You just can't, Molly. He's not right for you, and I think you know that. Please, don't marry him."
"Hey! Who the hell do you think you are!?", Tom screeches at him, advancing towards him. "Get out of here, or else I..."
"Or else what?", Sherlock scoffs. "You're going to stab me with a meat dagger? Please."
Molly covers her mouth and is frozen in place watching her wedding go down in flames, though actually feeling a bit of thrill within her that wasn't there before. She can't help but knowing how wrong that is, but not exactly caring. She's locked onto the two men as if watching the most exciting thriller in history.
That's when Tom lunges and both men fall to the floor. John runs into the room, and Mary looks back at him in utter shock and annoyance, in a silent question as to why he couldn't control his friend during such an occasion. Then again, she should know that Baker Street Squad weddings aren't famously known to go well…clearly. Of course, that was for about a split second before a smirk appears on her face as she tries to contain her laughter, a flashback to John tackling him on the restaurant floor, appearing in her mind, but this...this was ten times better because Sherlock is fighting for Molly, the way she had always known he should be.
"You're joking."
"Do I look like I'm joking, John!?"
"Well...uhh...I don't know, are you?"
"No! I'm not! I think I have held my tongue for long enough, honestly, I don't know why I ever thought that holding it was the best course of action, probably because of you, and now, NOW, today is the day and I can't possibly let her go through with it! He's a moron! Not only that, but he's also all WRONG for her! Completely!"
John snorts and raises an eyebrow.
"What!?"
"You just...seem very invested in this. It is Molly's life, Sherlock. She's not your puppet you know, as much as you believe her to be, she isn't."
"What? I-...that's not what I think of her as. Of course she's not my puppet. God John, that's despicable! I've like to think I have learned from my past mistakes, alright. Apparently, you're the only one who can't seem to forget them. AND just so you know, I have had plenty of discussions with Molly in private that you have not witnessed, so there. Maybe, just maybe, there are some things about me that you still don't know."
"Is that so?"
"Yes! In fact that is very much SO", he grumbles and flops onto the sofa. "Hmph."
"Well...enlighten me then."
"What?"
"You heard me. Enlighten me. Tell me what I'm clearly not seeing, what I don't know. Because I really don't understand why you are so possessive over a woman you have just sort of used in the past. Afraid of losing lab privileges, I could possibly see because its you, but I like to think that even you can't be that superficial. Yet you always ruin her chance for happiness, it's like a sick selfish game you play with her life for your own entertainment, and it's not funny or endearing. It's unkind."
"For the man who is supposed to be the heart of this operation, you're pretty damn thick when it comes to affairs of the heart, aren't you? I would really prefer not to spell it out to you but I'm afraid I'm going to have to."
John crosses his arms. "Go on then, spell it out."
Sherlock winces a bit, really not wanting to say it out loud. John chuckles and rolls his eyes. "You're a grown man, Sherlock. Just say it."
"I...uh...I...may have a few...select human...feelings...for Molly", he gets out slowly, making a bitter face when he says "feelings".
John smirks. "Wow, Mary was right. I'll have to give her her winnings."
"I realllyyy hope that isn't an innuendo."
"Ooh, Sherlock Holmes has his magnificent mind in the gutter, eh? You really must have feelings."
"Oh shut up."
"Just saying", he smirks.
"I'm positive Molly knows, which is why this is even more upsetting. She can't go through with it, and I have to stop it."
"Ohhh..no you don't, Sherlock."
"I have to!"
"Sherlock, this is her WEDDING day! She agreed to marry Tom, you are too late. You should have told her sooner mate."
"She can't really be happy with...with /him/", he shudders. "I'm going to stop her from marrying that disgrace."
"And do what, Sherlock. Stop the wedding and then what? Break her heart, ruin a happy day for her yet again?"
"No...", he ponders for a moment. "I'll just...simply take his place."
John nearly chokes on his own saliva. "Wh-WHAT!?"
"You heard me. I have to go. Now." Sherlock rushes over and grabs his Belstaff, rushing out the door. John jumps out of his seat and runs after him.
After Tom and Sherlock had scuffled for a bit and they both have significant bruises from each other's fists, John, Matty, and Lestrade manage to pry them apart.
Tom turns to Molly and gently pulls her aside. "He's an absolute lunatic. I'm so sorry this happened. It'll be okay." He goes to kiss her, and she pulls away a bit, tearing up. "Molly?"
"Tom I...I'm so sorry I can't."
"Wh…what? What are you talking about?"
Molly sniffs and looks at him. "I can't marry you, I'm sorry."
"Are you kidding me!? It's because of him, isn't it?"
"Actually...no. I- I was having regrets earlier...I just don't think I can marry you; I am so sorry. I really am. I never meant to hurt you, that's why I was going to go through with it, but I just can't."
He tears up and sets his jaw angrily. "Fine. Screw you, I'm out of here." He storms out, his family quickly following him, tossing her angry glares.
Molly covers her face and sobs and Meena rushes over, holding her close. "Oh, Moll...everything will be alright. I promise. I'm so sorry." She glances at her husband who takes that as a cue to take the children out to the car to occupy them.
She lets Molly cry and rubs her back soothingly until Sherlock walks over, looking guilty. Meena glares at him. "I'd punch you myself if Molly weren't already having regrets, you selfish bastard."
"I deserve that I suppose", Sherlock says. "May I speak with Molly? Please?"
"Maybe she doesn't want to talk to you."
Molly sniffs and squeezes Meena's hand. "Thanks, but I'm okay. It's okay, really", she manages a small smile. "Go check on your little ones."
Meena nods slowly and hesitantly leaves her with Sherlock. He takes a clean handkerchief out of his pocket and strokes her tears and dripping mascara away. Molly blushes a bit. "I guess I should thank you...what Meena said- I really was having regrets earlier. I don't know why I was going to go through with it."
"I'm glad you didn't", he shifts from foot to foot, suddenly seeming like a lost child.
"I can see that...I mean...you did burst into the church like a madman to stop me. So, why did you?", she looks up at him, not exactly sure what to expect.
Taking a deep breath, he looks into her eyes. "Molly, I held my tongue because I wanted you to get the happiness that you deserve, and I knew in my mind that it couldn't be me. Even though I knew it wasn't him either."
Molly nods slowly and looks down at her dress sniffling. "I guess I just go back to being boring old Molly now. The lone cadaver cutter..."
"You were never just that, Molly Hooper. Plus, you didn't let me finish. I realized earlier that maybe it could be me. I realized that it's not my decision to dictate your life and protect you when you don't want the protection. I come with a lot of danger and keeping you my biggest and darkest secret has kept you safe so far, and I didn't want to put you in danger. But I know that you can take care of yourself for the most part and it's clear to me now that you are more than capable of deciding things on your own. Even if I basically helped you make one a second ago..."
Molly turns red and looks up at him. "Wh-what are you saying, Sherlock?"
Sherlock looks very out of his element, but he pushes forward. "I'm...I'm saying that this doesn't have to be a complete loss...maybe if you want- if you'll have me...I could possibly...replace him."
"Wait wait, are you saying you want to marry me? Like, right now?"
"Yes. Er...will you?"
Molly laughs and grins. "Seriously?"
"I think I seem genuine and look pretty terrified most likely."
"Oh God...yes. Yes, I'll marry you, Sherlock Holmes. But only if you promise you won't regret this."
"Regret you? Never, Doctor Hooper."
Molly tears up and hugs him tightly, wrapping her arms around his neck. Sherlock snakes his arms around her, gently lifting her into the air. "It's not everyday that one's first kiss as a couple is on the wedding day, but then again we aren't most people, are we?"
She giggles and shakes her head. "No, we aren't. I can't believe this..."
"Well you best believe it. I need you fully aware and competent for the vows."
"I am, I will be! Oh God...um, okay. How are we going to do this? You get our friends and the priest ready, and I'll go and get Meena and her family, ok?"
Sherlock nods and grins brightly, unable to contain himself. He does as instructed and explains the situation after a bit of scrutiny from his friends, but gets them ready for the wedding, take two.
Molly rushes out to the parking lot and grins, hugging her little goddaughter Maisie as she giggles cutely, and looking up at Meena. "Guess whatttt?"
"Oh God, Molly. You cannot be for real!"
Meena's husband looks at them confused. "I will never get how you two can communicate without actually saying anything. It's creepy", he chuckles.
"Oh hush", Meena nudges him.
"I am completely for real. Will you still be my maid of honor?"
"You know I will. Are you /positive/, about it this time?"
"Yes. I swear, I am. I've loved him for a long time, and I never thought there would be a chance that he'd love me back, but he really does Meena. He may be a crazy, unique, impossible bastard sometimes. But he's mine."
Meena smiles softly and nods. "Then yes, I'll stand next to you. I'm glad you're getting what you've always wanted."
"Me too." She takes two roses out of her bouquet and grabs Maisie's empty Cheerio container and picks the petals off, putting them in it. "Maisie-girl, do you want to be my flower girl?"
Her little eyes light up. "Yeah!"
Molly giggles and kisses her cheek. "Oh, good! Let's go!"
The priest glances between them and shakes his head in disbelief but smiles, noticing how much happier the bride seems, and how the room feels more comfortable. They all watch with glee as four-year-old Maisie skips down the aisle throwing the rose petals and beaming. Once she's finished, she sits with her dad.
Molly turns back to Sherlock and gently holds his hands, before gasping a bit. He kisses her hand. "Lestrade still has the rings. You can use yours since I assume you chose it, and if his fits I'll wear it until I can get a better one."
She blushes and nods softly. "Okay."
The priest begins the ceremony yet again.
"Are you prepared, as you follow the path of Marriage, to love and honor each other for as long as you both shall live?"
"Are you prepared to accept children lovingly from God and to bring them up according to the law of Christ and his Church?"
"We are", they both answer, Molly's cheeks a shade of rose pink, as she looks at him questioningly. He smiles back at her.
The priest nods and begins the vows. "William, do you take Margaret for your lawful wife, to have and to hold, from this day forward, for better, for worse, for richer, for poorer, in sickness and in health, until death do you part?
Sherlock grins and squeezes her hands tenderly. "I do."
Margaret, do you take William for your lawful husband, to have and to hold, from this day forward, for better, for worse, for richer, for poorer, in sickness and in health, until death do you part?
"I do", Molly responds, grinning from ear to ear.
Lestrade smirks and pops up, handing them the rings, and the priest blesses them. Since Sherlock doesn't know the vow by heart, the priest tells Molly to go first, and he will copy.
Molly takes what would have been Tom's ring, and gently puts it on Sherlock's finger. Saying his first name feels so weird to her but gratifying as well. "William, receive this ring as a sign of my love and fidelity. In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit."
Sherlock takes Molly's ring and places it on her finger carefully. Margaret, receive this ring as a sign of my love and fidelity. In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit." He cringes slightly because he is not very religious but dies it for Molly's sake.
"By the power invested in me, I now pronounce you husband and wife. You may kiss the bride."
With that Sherlock smirks and dips his new bride, kissing her soundly for the first time. Molly eagerly kissing back, holding him close to her as their friends can't help but howl in approval from the pews.
Molly curls up against her husband in bed the next morning, kissing her way up his chest to his lips. He hums in approval and kisses back.
"Good Morning", he murmurs, his voice deep with sleep.
"Good morning husband."
He smiles and tugs her closer to his body. "Doctor Molly Holmes...mm I love the ring that has, wife."
"Me too. And I can't stop looking at my new rings...they're gorgeous Sherlock. Thank you."
"You deserve them. Much better than the miniscule ones Tom chose. Pfft."
"Admittedly so..." she giggles softly. "Thanks for making my dreams come true."
"Mhh don't speak too soon", he mumbles into her neck as he stokes her stomach.
"Either way what I said is still true. This life may be crazy and hectic, and adrenaline fueled and even a bit dangerous. But I wouldn't trade it for the world. I promise you."
Sherlock dips his head to capture her lips yet again and smiles. "Neither would I. You make me a more human human, and a better person as a whole. You keep me grounded, Molly. I love you."
"I love you too, Sherlock."
