Sherlock comes into the lab, having been chasing down leads on who could have plastered that loop of Moriarty on billboards all over the city. He looks around, seeing nobody around.
"Hello?"
"Oh hello, Sherlock" Molly says, walking out of her office.
"Oh, you're here. Anyone else working?"
"Umm, no. Since when do you not want my help in favor of another pathologist?"
"I'd rather deal with someone else today, is that so wrong?" He makes to leave, but before he can, she pipes up.
"Why?" She crosses her arms. "Sherlock Holmes get your arse in here and explain."
"You're still all emotional from that guy...er...Tim?"
"No I'm not! And it's TOM.".
"Yes you are, you're yelling at me."
"Because you're being an ass."
Sherlock chuckles and quirks an eyebrow. "Is that really such a shock?"
"Tell, Sherlock. You're in a very weird mood...what's going on, are you in trouble again? You haven't seemed this jittery since you came to be about...well, jumping off the roof..."
"Me? Jittery? No I'm...fine."
"Then why are you here?"
"Well, Greg suggested that I should come and inform you so you aren't blindsided by the headlines and such...uh, he wanted me to inform you that the Yard is going to arrest me for murder...and the case in my favor isn't looking very good for me."
"What!?"
"For killing Magnussen."
"Oh God...what did you do..." She trails off, her expression falling Into a sullen one. "Sherlock, but you were doing it for self-defense...er...defense of another actually."
"They don't believe that, and I wasn't really. I was pushed into a corner with no other way out from my treason and he was a narcissistic blackmailer. I suppose Mycroft is pissed enough to let me rot this time. I sort of stole his laptop with government secrets on it and traded it for Mary's immunity with Magnussen."
"You were just protecting John and Mary. I can see why Mycroft would be mad, but is he really mad enough to let you go this alone? Sherlock...these are serious charges. If you go to trial...he can't do anything if that starts."
"Yes, I know. According to the law, my actions were not exactly self-defense. Blackmail isn't a physical threat so..."
"Yes well...it's defending your friends. London needs you, he saw what happened last time the city turned on you."
He sighs softly and looks down. "I wish I was optimistic about this, but I don't see a way out this time...at some point, I suppose I knew I'd have to answer for my actions and Mycroft wasn't the only person who saw what I did that day. If it comes down to character witnesses or anything else they can think of, would you be willing to testify on my behalf?"
"I will." She looks at him softly. "Whatever you need. You know that."
Sherlock looks at her softly, the vulnerability and fear shining through his kaleidoscope orbs. "Thank you. See you later, Molly." Sherlock saunters toward the door, a bit of his confidence gone from his step.
"Hey, Sherlock?"
"Yes?", he turns around to face her, his Belstaff fluttering.
Molly goes over and kisses his cheek, going on her tiptoes. "Don't lose hope. The moment you lose hope or confidence in yourself is the moment they'll attack the hardest. Stay strong."
He blushes slightly and nods. "I will."
A month later Mycroft had not interfered. Sherlock is being tried for first-degree murder. People begin to crowd into the courtroom and there's plenty of media and cameras there as well.
"Mycroft can't let him rot in prison...he can't" Molly mumbles to herself, sitting and looking around nervously. She sees Sherlock walking in. He is in a nice suit and cuffs. They uncuff him and he sits down. He doesn't have a lawyer and she starts panicking for him. Molly swallows the lump in her throat and catches his gaze. She nods politely and supportively. Sherlock nods back as John and Mary sit next to her, chattering under their breath about how worried they are for him and how foolish he is not refusing a lawyer. Molly starts to tear up and turns to them. "Mycroft can't just let him be locked up."
"Do you even see Mycroft here?" John sighs.
"No, but he could be working behind the scenes. Like they keep saying, everyone has a pressure point...and Sherlock is obviously his, he didn't let them shoot him."
"No, but not letting him get killed and not letting him take responsibility for his actions are two different things. I think Mycroft was sick and tired of being in the middle of Sherlock's political and criminal stunts. And I'm not just saying that; it's a direct quote from Mr. Government himself.
The trial begins. Sherlock stares emotionless at the wall and Molly keeps her gaze fixed on him. The Magnussen family lawyer makes an impressive case against him and Molly can't help herself from getting even more upset and shakes her head. "Do you have anything to say in your defense Mr. Holmes?" the judge asks.
Sherlock shakes his head weakly. "No."
"Alright, then we will call up the first witness. John Hamish Watson."
John stands and makes his way to the podium. The Magnussen lawyer stands. "Dr. Watson please go over the events that took place on The 25th of December, 2014." John takes a large breath and recaps everything from the extent of the blackmail to the "false" facts that Magnussen had to ruin his and Mary's life. He explains why Magnussen was such a danger, and also everything he had done to Lady Smallwood, explaining the case that got Sherlock into this mess. The lawyer snickers. "Can you prove any of this? It looks like you are quite biased."
"How am I supposed to prove this if he used a memory technique, quite like Sherlock himself does at times, sir? Would you like me to try and read a dead man's mind?" John says with annoyed sarcasm. "Did I not swear on the Bible? This man wouldn't harm a soul unless innocent lives were in danger from the perpetrator."
"You could be lying to protect your friend. We need facts, not stories. Plus, this isn't the first criminal jam your famous partner has gotten himself into, isn't that right?"
"Well, surely the jury has heard of the James Moriarty trial and the events to follow. Sherlock Holmes was innocent the whole time. Criminals tend to skew the truth and Sherlock takes the most difficult of cases for the good of London. Dirty work isn't fun, and the people we deal with aren't Boy Scouts. They are the devils in disguise. The worst of the worst. You would be glad to have Sherlock Holmes fighting on behalf of the general population."
"That case has nothing to do with the present. James Moriarty is dead and buried for two years now, and these circumstances are entirely different. I think we are done here, Dr. Watson."
John grimaces annoyedly and looks to the crowd. "All of you here that have had your personal cases brought to justice by Sherlock Holmes, please stand up."
More than half the room stands in appreciation.
"See sir? This man only helps lives, not hurts. I rest my case." Sherlock glances at I'm in appreciation, smiling a bit.
"I'm finished with you, Doctor", the lawyer states. "The next witness is Margaret Hooper."
Molly swallows hard and shakily makes her way to the podium. "Now Miss Hooper, is Sherlock Holmes a friend of yours?"
"Yes."
"And you assisted him with faking his death two years ago?"
"I did. It had to be done to assure that London wouldn't be under the severe threat that James Moriarty brought in his presence."
"What type of man is Sherlock Holmes?"
Molly takes a breath to calm her nerves. "Sherlock Holmes is brilliant. A proper genius. He has his moments like everyone else. He's human. He's never violent toward anybody unless there's a great threat to good people and he has no other choice but to act in the moment. I've known him for almost nine years now. Sherlock is one of the most amazing people you could ever meet. Yeah, he can read your whole life story in one look. He can be so focused on a case that he can be seen as rigid, but the results outweigh any of the negativity. He has saved more lives than I can count. I'm sure you've read John's blog of just the adventures they have had since 2010 as well. Despite everything, Sherlock Holmes is one of the most decent and best men in the country. I keep a journal of some of their lesser known case, especially the ones I have aided with in the chem lab of St. Bart's."
The lawyer smirks and nods. "Miss Hooper, are you in love with Sherlock Holmes?"
"Excuse me? Um, objection your honor."
"It's just a simple question!"
The judge sighs. "Sustained. Keep it to the facts of the case, sir." The lawyer chuckles and sits down. "I think I'm done here. The facts of the cold-blooded murder speak for themselves regardless of how good of a friend he could be. He's still an 'alleged' murderer."
Molly speaks up again. "Anyways, as I was saying. If you'd like that as some sort of evidence then you can have it. I have dates, some names, descriptions of various cases with help from Scotland Yard as well."
"As I said, I'm done with you. You may leave the stand, Miss Hooper."
"It's Doctor Hooper, thank you. I may be a smaller female but I have had just as much training as Doctor Watson, and I am the head of my department. I'd appreciate you titling me as such." She sits down, her hands shaking a bit. The lawyer sets his jaw and nods slowly.
They then have Greg speak, and he gives a great monologue on Sherlock's behalf. They call the prosecutory witnesses next, then the jury leaves the room to deliberate. Molly rubs her face as one of the jury members asks for the journal. The lawyer goes over to her and retrieves it, handing it to the jurors.
The jurors only spent five hours deliberating, and everyone is called back in to read the charges.
Molly swallows hard and sits, fiddling with her hands. She looks at Sherlock and gives him a small supportive smile, seeing as that all she could muster. The jury stands up at attention and begin to read.
"We the jury find Sherlock Holmes...GUILTY of first-degree murder."
"No!" Molly tears up and she can feel her heart shattering within her chest. Some people clap and some boo loudly. Her head begins to spin as they put Sherlock in handcuffs and lead him away before sentencing. "No..no!" Molly sobs and breaks down with Mary. John stands in utter shock. As he is being led away, Sherlock keeps his gaze on Molly, getting her attention. She sees him mouth something and looks closer. He mouths "Visit me." She nods at him as tears rush down her face.
