John hadn't answered his phone or any of his texts for nearly a week, and Sherlock was worried. Slouched in his armchair in his flat on Baker's Street, he stared into the fire, remembering the funeral. Had it only been a week ago?
MARY ELIZABETH WATSON
BELOVED WIFE AND MOTHER
Sherlock recalled his friend turning away from the grave and walking away, his shoulders hunched. The infant in his arms whined pitifully, but did not cry, as though she knew her father had more than he could handle already. He remembered Molly gently squeezing his hand before following John, and Mycroft, who stood to the side, seeming unsure of what to do.
He had called John the day after the funeral and he recalled the brief, terse conversation.
"Hi, John."
"Sherlock."
"How are you holding up?"
No answer.
"I see... John, your room is always available here. And Rosie's always-"
"Sherlock-" John had sounded mad, "Shut up. If you think I'm just going to move back in, move out of my and Mary's house, and be your little sidekick again, you're wrong! I'm not just going to forget everything, so why don't you just disappear!"
"John-"
"And stay away from Rosie!" John had finished harshly, and then he hung up. That had been the last time they had spoken.
Now he was remembering Molly's apologetic face, bouncing the baby girl in her arms, telling him John didn't want him to see Rosie anymore. Bloody hell! Sherlock had lost his sister-in-law, by all accounts, practically lost his best friend, and now he was having his goddaughter taken away, too.
After that, John had stopped replying to his texts and never answered his calls. Molly said she had not been asked to babysit, Lestrade said he had not seen them anywhere in town, and so, with a grim expression on his face, he had called Mycroft.
Two hours after hanging up with Mycroft, the government official had arrived at the flat to check on Sherlock. He said that, according to his sources (God knew what or who they were) John and Rosie were in the house, both still alive. And so Sherlock had stayed where he was: waiting for John to come around.
But 
he was worried about them.
And because Sherlock was known for his deducing skills, and not his patience, he was up just five minutes after the last thought crossed his mind, pulling on his coat and scarf. He'd walk, he decided.
John Watson was a rather predictable person, which was why the key was under the doormat. Sherlock let himself silently into the house and then looked around carefully. It was silent and empty, but John's shoes were by the door and his windbreaker was hung on the hook beside Rosie's wrap and Mary's coat.
Her coat was still there...
The detective felt a sharp feeling rush through him as he turned decidedly away and journeyed into the kitchen and sitting room, looking around. Everywhere was empty as he wandered around, but Mycroft had said...
He could have sworn he'd heard a shrill wail from upstairs and he turned once more in a swirl of his coat and moved up the stairs.
Rosie's nursery was directly at the top of the stairs and as he neared it, the wailing grew louder. He opened the door gently to find the infant in her crib, crying hoarsely. She'd been crying for a long while, Sherlock deduced, and John was nowhere in sight.
Lifting the baby carefully into his arms, Sherlock wrapped her in a blanket he found beside the crib and turned to the door to leave the room. Rosie calmed, her face buried in her godfather's shoulder, the occasional sob running through her.
"It's going to be alright, Rosie..." he murmured to her. "That's my sweet girl. Calm down..."
He was mirroring Mary's tone and echoing her words, he knew, but there was nothing else he 
do. He left the room slowly, looking for John.
John was in his and Mary's bedroom, one hand braced on their bed and the other covering his face. He didn't look up when Sherlock entered, only muttering, "I needed a break. She wouldn't shut up."
"She's eight months old, John," Sherlock reminded him crisply. "She didn't mean to anger you."
John was turning to him now, furious.
"I told you to leave us alone!" He accused. "Hand over my daughter and-"
"You told me to disappear, John, not to leave you alone."
It was the last straw for John who moved to attack Sherlock, except that the latter, even with a baby in his arms, was stronger. He blocked the half-hearted punch aimed at his face, ducked the next one, and laid Rosie out on the bed before turning to his past friend.
"If you don't care about harming me," he bit out, "You could at least worry about harming your daughter!"
John appeared to be staggered for a moment, his eyes shifting from the detective to the baby who was fussing on the mattress. He appeared to be making a decision, and then he swung again and Sherlock didn't even block. It hit him in the jaw and he felt it throbbing, waiting for a second blow... but it never came. He looked to John in confusion, but the doctor was slumped up against the opposite wall, his arms crossed tightly and his chin touching his chest.
"That's it?" Sherlock questioned. "That's it?"
John didn't reply immediately, and it was only after Sherlock had retrieved his crying goddaughter from the bed and soothed her in his arms that his friend spoke.
"Do no harm..." he murmured.
"I'm sorry?"
John looked up.
"Med school. The rule was: do no harm. Not except in self defense. I broke it."
Sherlock rubbed his jaw briefly, never taking his eyes off his broken friend.
"I don't think they were talking about the man who killed your wife, John."
John flinched and quickly said, "You didn't kill Mary, Sherlock. Don't blame yourself."
Sherlock laughed bitterly.
"You're one to talk about blaming me. I thought you did!"
"Of course I-" John started, ready to deny everything, and then he halted, self-hatred flooding through him as he realized exactly what he'd done to his best friend. "Did..." he finished quietly. He closed his eyes and breathed evenly, putting his head in his hands.
Sherlock saw he was falling apart and took two steps forward, reached out with one hand that dropped to his side when John's head snapped up. Rosie was dozing lightly in her godfather's arms, and Sherlock's face only held concern. No hatred whatsoever.
, John considered.
"I loved her too, John," Sherlock said quietly. "Not in the same way you did, but she was my best friend's wife... and my goddaughter's mother... and the closest thing to a sister I'll ever have... well, who's not psychotic..."
John let out a soft laugh, and then it broke and he was crying, and for a moment, Sherlock didn't know what to do. He adjusted Rosie in his arms and stepped forward again, his free hand resting lightly on John's shoulder, his fingers gripping it after a moment.
He gently pulled the doctor toward him and John's forehead fell against his shoulder, burrowing there just slightly. They were as close as they could be with Rosie between them: the members of two broken families determined to be one.
"A-after you jumped," John muttered into Sherlock's shoulder, "I was so... so alone. And then Mary came, and I wasn't alone anymore. I - I just can't be alone again. I can't live alone. I can't work alone. I can't be a father alone... I. Can't. Do it, Sherlock."
"I know that, John."
"I can't forget about her, Sherlock."
"I know that, too."
He wrapped his arm around John's shoulders and pulled him in a little tighter, resting his forehead atop the doctor's head.
"You're still not alone, John," he told him gently. "Not while I'm here."
