"
"
Sherlock didn't even look up from his thoughtful stupor to see his flatmate across from him. John sat in his armchair, a novel open and forgotten in his hands as he gazed, concerned, at the consulting detective. Maybe he was just being hyperaware. Maybe he was just seeing things that weren't there...
He started to look down at his book again when Sherlock let out another dry cough. His head jerked up once more.
"Are you 
you're not getting sick?"
Sherlock jolted upright on the couch, his eyes flashing angrily.
"I said I'm fine, John!" he stated loudly, his voice growing more hoarse with every word. "I'm trying to think! Would you go back to reading your book and shut-"
He didn't make it any farther as he burst out in a coughing fit and placed his head on his hand to prevent his vision from swimming. John set his book aside and rose quietly from his chair. After returning from Soo Lin's flat, Sherlock had gone directly to the couch and stretched out on it, not removing his coat or his scarf. John had taken it to mean that he was sidetracked, but maybe he was cold.
He crossed the room and crouched down beside his friend, his cool hand moving up to feel Sherlock's forehead. It was warm, but not feverish. John frowned in concentration and twisted his fingers around to feel Sherlock's wrist. His pulse was agitated, more so than usual.
It was a testament to how poorly the young detective was feeling that he had allowed John to do this all without being pushed away or receiving a nasty retort. He reached up to feel Sherlock's throat for a pulse, but as soon as his fingers pressed down on the tender skin, the detective jerked away emitting something of a pain-caused cry.
The sudden noise had shocked John so strongly he had pulled his hands away in fear and, after a moment, peered up into his face.
"Want to tell me what's bothering you? And don't say that I'm bothering you. You know full well what I'm implying."
When Sherlock did not reply, John stood up once more and experimented by pressing gently against the side of the other's throat. He clearly attempted to mask it, but there was a small gasp of pain.
"Sherlock Holmes..." John warned carefully, and then, taking matters into his own hands he carefully started to undue the scarf at Sherlock's throat. The detective tried to push him away had first, but after John quickly slapped his hand away he sat silently as the scarf came off and the inevitable intake of breath came from the doctor.
The coat came off next so that he could see the dark bruises in all their glory. They went completely around the younger man's neck, dark the whole way around. No wonder his speaking had been rough!
Sherlock was looking up at him, guilty as a child caught stealing from the cookie jar, and John looked back at him, attempting to reign in his anger. Anger at whoever had done this to his Sherlock. Anger at his Sherlock for hiding it from him.
"You really must stop cranking that scarf on so tight," John commented conversationally, slowly sitting down on the coffee table in front of the couch Sherlock was on, "I do believe it's 
."
"I'm-" Sherlock began, but John cut him off.
"I swear, if you say you're fine one more time..."
He placed his head in his hand and closed his eyes tightly for a moment, concentrating. Sherlock had the good sense to keep his mouth shut until John looked up once more and reached out again, hesitating. He looked questioningly at Sherlock who gave the slightest nod of consent.
"Handkerchief, I'd say," John decided, carefully prodding the bruises with his fingertips. "I'd say... maybe two minutes?" he looked to Sherlock for confirmation before adding, "Perhaps not quite that long..."
"I wasn't counting," Sherlock responded dryly, and then he relapsed into another coughing fit.
"Whoever it was didn't do it right," John went on after Sherlock was 
finished. "The bruises are not even the whole way around which means you got some air over the course of the..." he winced, "event..."
He relapsed into silence as he continued examining the injuries and then, with a heavy sigh that made Sherlock feel horrible, he rose and disappeared into the kitchen. Sherlock heard him open the freezer and rifle around in it before closing it and returning to the living room with a cold compress and a towel.
He applied it carefully to the worst of the bruising, glancing sympathetically at the other when he flinched at the contact. Getting the swelling down would make it a little easier for him to talk and breathe, and then they could go from there.
"Hold that on," he commanded, and when Sherlock had replaced John's hand with his own, he left the room again. Sherlock heard his footsteps on the stairs to his room and marveled for a moment how a man who could develop a psychosomatic limp overnight could run up stairs at a reasonably fast pace when it really counted.
John returned with two small tablets and a glass of water which he passed over with a blunt, "Take them."
"They're not sleeping pills, are they?" Sherlock questioned. John closed his lips tightly and shook his head before adding, "It's a low-dose pain medication, but you're still going to sleep."
"But the case-"
"Will still be there when you wake up."
It was obvious that was the end of the conversation. John moved the ice to another part of the bruise and was slightly pleased at the lack of swelling where it had just been. Sherlock quickly shot down the tablets and then held the compress in place. John put his head back down on his hands, thinking.
"I don't feel anything," Sherlock said abruptly. John looked up so fast his neck snapped to see Sherlock prodding his throat lightly. "It doesn't hurt."
"It's not supposed to after what I gave you. Let off the ice. The swelling's down."
After returning the ice to the freezer, Sherlock made to go to his bedroom, but John halted him.
"I'd rather you sleep out here," he told him. "You've done it often enough."
"I don't need to be supervised," Sherlock shot at him irritably.
"I never said you did," John informed him calmly. "I simply believe that you need to be 
."
John disappeared around the corner and returned with two pillows and a blanket from the detective's bed. Sherlock stretched out on the couch and closed his eyes to rest. Shockingly, his mind seemed to comply and chose to turn off. He heard John return to his station of sitting on the coffee table, hesitant. Finally, he reached out slowly and placed his hand on Sherlock's covered shoulder.
"Why didn't you tell me you were attacked?"
Sherlock didn't open his eyes.
"Because it happened so fast," he said quietly. "It was quiet, and then I realized there was someone there... and then he attacked. And just as suddenly as he had appeared, he was gone, and you were banging on the door shouting to be let in."
"You weren't sure it happened?" John questioned skeptically. He shifted his hand to the bruised ring around his flatmate's throat and slowly shook his head. "See that, Sherlock? It happened."
Sherlock slowly opened his eyes when John failed to keep talking and saw physical pain written across his face.
"I should have been there," John murmured. "To think that you were minutes away from death and I stood just outside, taunting you. It could have been the last thing you heard..."
"I would have been happy for your voice to be the last thing I heard before death," Sherlock said gently, but John didn't see it the same way.
"Just... don't... Sherlock," he muttered. "Just shut up, please."
"No, I should have let you in right away," Sherlock confirmed. "I'm used to flying solo, and I apologize for that."
Having said that, he closed his eyes to sleep, but the last thing he felt was his friend's hand resting on his forehead, carefully sweeping his dark curls back. He'd spoken the truth, he knew. There was nothing he would have preferred but to die hearing the voice of his one and only friend. The only person who would 
miss him.
