"Mister Holmes, how can I help you? Come inside." She asked.
"Miss Alder, my best friend left me and got married. I can't stand the pain, I need someone to talk to. is still at the wedding. I left it early." He replied. He trusted Irene as much as he did John.
Irene went to make some tea. She knows that Sherlock likes tea made by her. While making tea, she was lost in her own thoughts. ' is ' best friend. He must be very sad and feeling lonely with him. He must've left the wedding early because he couldn't stand his friend marrying. I know how it feels. When I cried when he was just at the brink of death but was saved. Is he high?' She bought the tea to him.
His was gazing at floor. He did not even look up when she bought in the tea. " , look at me."She said as she sat opposite to him."Have you taken anything?" She asked. He did reply, but did not look up. "Miss Alder, I haven't taken anything. I'm not high." His voice broke a little.
'Sherlock, you are not going to cry in front of The Woman! Don't let your mask shatter! You are the great Sherlock Holmes! You do not cry!' His mind screamed at him. He shut his eyelids tight to stop the tears. He took his cup of tea and started drinking it.
Irene noticed that his hand was shaking. ' is a human. He has just lost his only best friend in the world-' her thoughts were interrupted when a tear fell down Sherlock's cheek.
" . You can cry. I once cried in front of you. Now it's you who needs comfort." She spoke.
"Miss Alder, I'm f-" he started.
"Don't you dare say you're fine, Sherlock. You clearly aren't." She didn't mention him as this time.
Sherlock didn't reply. He wiped away the tears which had fallen, and fresh ones came.
Irene bit her lip. She hunched forward and hugged him. Sherlock stiffened but did not flinch.
"You poor thing, I know how you feel." She said as he sobbed into her shoulder. When he was done crying she gave him tissues. " , now don't go for drugs because I don't want to lose you." She said.
"Alright, I won't. Thanks Miss Alder." He lied.
She sighed and said, "I'll never leave you, if John does."
This is my second fanfic. Hope you enjoyed. I am working on a multi chapter, it'll be out soon.

