Christmas Miracle
The property had not looked like this in decades. The spacious grounds were decorated with elegant fairy lights, lighting the way to the front door of the manor and through the gardens out back. The manor itself looked akin to a winter cottage found on a cookie box. Snow lined the roof and every windowsill, a small candle stood in every window while green garlands lined the upper frames, a wreath hung from the front door, and people wrapped in thick coats meandered their way through the meager snowfall on their way towards the manor. More could be seen through the windows as they mingled, drank, ate, and laughed together.
It was the traditional Holmes Christmas party. Well, it was tradition now. Up until three years ago, it was unheard of. Up until three years ago, only the Holmes family itself (minus one daughter) would get together, and that usually happened only once every three or four years. And it was always forced on the two sons, who would love nothing more than to cast aside these silly holiday traditions and just go spend time with themselves. However, three years ago, events conspired to change all that.
The Holmes daughter Eurus brought the family back together again in a rather roughshod way, one which caused much grief but also led to much happiness and reconciliation. The two sons, Sherlock and Mycroft, were able to bond over the experience, Mycroft realizing his younger brother was a very capable, together man who perhaps did not need such close scrutiny any longer and Sherlock realizing that his brother's mothering and spying was all done out of protection from the trauma he had experienced when they were younger.
Sherlock was also able, now that he was gifted back the memories of his childhood friend Victor Trevor, to reach that sentimental side that had been walled up since very early in his life. Now that he remembered who he had been once upon a time, he was able to realize that emotions and sentiment were not all his brother played them out to be. They were not a weakness, no matter how much they seemed to hurt or sabotage you. There was a hidden strength in them, an arsenal to draw upon when needed.
And there was so much more to gain from indulging in said sentiment. Namely, one Molly Hooper.
Sherlock had experienced something he never had that day at Sherrinford. From the moment that phrase first left his lips—
"
—there had been a stirring, something he couldn't explain nor had expected. It was a rush through his chest, a tightening of his stomach, a pricking at the corner of his eyes, a sudden loss of breath. It was such a strange yet pleasant feeling—one he had never felt nor knew what it was—that it forced the words from him again, trying to explain the sensations running through him.
It wasn't until a few days later, after he was still unable to determine what it had been, that he confided in his best friend Dr. John Watson while the man was visiting the Baker Street flat one day with his daughter Rosie. John was confused at first until Sherlock started explaining his symptoms. John's frown quickly morphed into an amused smile. Not understanding why it appeared that John was silently laughing at him, Sherlock demanded (politely) an explanation.
John had simply stepped over to him, placed a hand on his shoulder, and said, "Because it's true, Sherlock."
"What is?" Sherlock had asked.
"What you said," John had continued. "It's true. You love her." He had then turned and made his way out of the flat, leaving Sherlock with his thoughts.
Sherlock had looked back over that phone call from that perspective, realizing that John just may, in fact, have been right. He had then gone into his mind palace, reviewing the past several years in relation to Molly. And he had realized that, yes, it was true. Sherlock still thinks he may have been more stunned by that than Molly had been when he'd finally told her several days later, once he'd worked up the courage.
And ever since, the Holmes family had grown closer as Sherlock and Molly did as well. In fact, Sherlock had even purchased a ring, planning to surprise Molly at the end of the night, his Christmas Eve gift to her. (He refused to do it earlier and have everyone at the party obsessing over it; this was something to be shared between them first and foremost before involving anyone else). He was practically abuzz with excitement, yet anxiety as well.
Molly, on the other hand, did not seem to be in the same spirits.
Molly tried to enjoy herself amongst Sherlock's family and their friends. But all night long, her thoughts would continuously turn towards her predicament. She had no idea when she was going to tell Sherlock, or even how she was going to tell him. And what would he say? Would he freak out? Would he reject her? Or would he embrace it? It was true; he had changed quite a lot in the last few years. She even caught glimpses sometimes of something so deep in his expression that she found herself seriously planning and looking forward to a possible happy future together.
Molly was currently staring down at her glass of punch, a fixed smile held in place so no one would question if she was all right or not. She would glance around at the few people she and Sherlock were standing with as they all chatted, throwing in the occasional word, smile, or laugh. But for the most part, she was absent from the conversation.
Molly glanced up as a hand was placed on the small of her back.
Sherlock was gazing down at her with a smile, and he leaned slightly towards her, his voice lowered. "I don't know about you, but I could use some air. Care for a little walk?"
Knowing full well that Sherlock actually 
know, that he could deduce that Molly was behaving differently, and that he was offering her an easy way out of this moment, Molly smiled at him, touched by the gesture. "I'd love to."
Sherlock took Molly's drink, setting it and his own on a nearby table, and took her arm in his, escorting her through the patio door and down the stairs into the back garden.
Molly started silently worrying as they strode through the pathways. Sherlock knew something was going on and was not likely to let it lie. He had gotten so much better at respecting people's privacy (outside of cases) and wouldn't press it if Molly asked him not to, but if he was worried, it was so much harder to say no to him. What was she going to tell him? How was he going to react?
When they reached the farthest corner of the moderate-sized garden, Sherlock looked over at her and finally spoke. "What's wrong?"
As a last ditch effort, Molly shook her head, putting on a reassuring smile. "Nothing, it's—"
"Molly," Sherlock said softly, pushing yet not pushing.
Molly sighed, coming to a stop. She had known it was pointless; you could hardly ever hide anything from the consulting detective. She sat down on a nearby bench, hesitating as she stared down at her feet.
Sherlock sat down next to her, his voice tightening in worry. "What is it? Is everything all right?"
Molly looked up at him. "No, no, everything's okay. At least, I hope it will be." Her gaze fell again. "I just know that this is very unexpected, and I don't…" She sighed, wringing her hands in her lap.
"Molly, you're scaring me," Sherlock said quietly.
Molly's eyes widened as they flew up to meet his. "Oh, no, no! It's nothing bad. I'm not sick or anything. This is a good thing." She watched as Sherlock visibly relaxed slightly. "Well, it's normally a good thing. I'm just worried about how you're going to react to it."
Sherlock reached over, taking her hands in his. "Molly, there's nothing you could tell me that would make me stop loving you."
Molly smiled sadly at him, hoping that that was indeed true. 
 She looked him in the eye, taking a fortifying breath. "I'm pregnant."
Sherlock's eyes widened as the slight smile shifted into a slightly dropped jaw.
"I just—I know that we didn't plan this," Molly jumped in, trying to explain and reassure him as his gaze fell and his hands let go of hers. "And you don't really like children, I know that. It's okay. You don't have to be involved. I understand—"
"Are you sure?" Sherlock interrupted her, his voice oddly blank as he kept his head down, staring at the ground.
"What?" asked Molly.
"Are you sure?" asked Sherlock again in that odd tone of voice.
"I did a few home pregnancy tests and then did the bloodwork at the lab," she told him quietly. "I'm sure."
Molly had been expecting this to be one of Sherlock's reactions and so was prepared for Sherlock to completely reject this development in their relationship. And so, she was confused when Sherlock let out a sudden shaky exhale that almost sounded like a sob.
Molly frowned in worry. "Sherlock?"
Sherlock finally turned his face towards her, his eyes wet with tears.
Molly immediately took his hands. "Sherlock, what—"
"I thought…" gasped Sherlock, shaking his head slightly. "I didn't…"
"What is it?"
Sherlock took a breath to calm himself. "After Culverton Smith, I knew I never wanted to go back to drugs ever again. I went to a doctor to see if there had been any permanent damage from the years of drug abuse. I went to multiple doctors, hoping for a different diagnosis, but they all said the same thing: infertile."
Molly's eyes widened in realization. So, that was why he was reacting this way. He never thought he would be able to be a father.
"I decided I didn't even want children, didn't even like them," Sherlock went on, the tears slowly starting to fall down his face. "Because I couldn't bear the thought of not being able to give you a child."
Molly's heart went out to him. To think that he'd been silently suffering this whole time, that he was pushing away a dream because he couldn't have it, couldn't give her something he knew she would want with him…
Sherlock's gaze went to her midsection, and he slowly reached forward, placing his hand on it, his brows raised in barely controlled hope. He looked up at her, brows furrowed in question. "You're really pregnant?"
Molly smiled at him, the tears falling down her face now as well. "Yes." She laughed a little. "We're going to be parents."
Sherlock smiled at her before jumping to his feet, pulling her to hers and lifting her. He turned on the spot, spinning her around as they both laughed. Molly wrapped her arms around him, hugging him as she giggled. Sherlock's deep chuckle rang in her ear as he slowly came to a stop, setting her down.
He placed his hands on either side of her face and gave her a long, deep kiss. He pulled back, resting his forehead against hers. "I love you."
"I love you," Molly whispered back.
Sherlock leaned forward once again to kiss her. "Can I ask one favor of you?"
Molly smiled. "Okay."
"Can I share the news tonight? I don't think it's possible to keep this smile off of my face."
Molly giggled at the giddiness coming off of him. "Yes, yes, we'll tell everyone tonight."
Sherlock pulled her into another kiss, this one more passionate.
Molly giggled again as they parted. "I had no idea you would feel this way about children."
"Neither did I," Sherlock admitted. "Until I was told I couldn't have any. I realized I would never see a baby—a child—that was ours, half me and half you. With your smile, my curls, your heart… I knew then that I wanted that…a family."
Molly caressed the side of his face before pulling him into a hug. "And now, we'll have one." She pulled back. "Let's go tell everyone."
Sherlock took hold of her hand, and they turned towards the house. But suddenly, Sherlock felt this incredible urge deep inside. Although he had planned this for later, something inside told him this was the time.
"One moment," he told her, stopping her and turning her towards him. He had never been more grateful that he'd forgotten to take it out of his pocket earlier that day. "I had planned to do this later tonight, but…" He took a fortifying breath before gently grasping her hands. "Molly…I had thought you could never make me more happy than I already was. Tonight, you have proved me wrong. Will you do it again?"
Molly frowned in confusion. "What do you mean?"
"At John and Mary's wedding, I said I would never make a vow again," Sherlock told her, subtly slipping the box out of his pocket as he released her hands. "But lately, I've been finding myself very much wanting to." He raised the box in between them and opened it.
Molly gasped, her hand flying to her mouth. She stared for what felt like a long while before looking back up at him.
"Will you marry me, Molly?" Sherlock asked.
Tears filled Molly's eyes as she stared at him. Sherlock watched her, starting to become wary as no answer was forthcoming. The spell finally broke, however, and a smile burst forth on Molly's face.
"Yes!" she said, laughing slightly as her smile grew. "Yes, I will!"
Sherlock smiled, plucking the ring from its box, and he placed the box in his pocket rather quickly, as Molly couldn't contain herself any longer and threw herself into his arms. Sherlock chuckled deeply as Molly laughed in his ear. Molly pulled back so she could kiss him several times before he set her back on her feet.
"Careful, now," he told her, his hand falling to rest on her stomach. "Wouldn't want to upset the little one."
Tears fell once again down Molly's cheeks, seemingly unable to be held in check.
Frowning slightly, Sherlock asked, "Are you all right?"
Molly shook her head, her smile unrestrained. "Sorry. I just don't think I've ever been this happy."
Sherlock smiled, leaning forward to gently kiss her and just stare into her eyes. He then looked down at her hands, grasping the left and sliding the ring onto her finger.
"You were going to propose tonight after the party?" she asked him, her thumb stroking the engagement ring on her finger.
"I didn't want to cause a big scene at the party, what with everyone congratulating and fawning over the ring," Sherlock explained.
Molly looked up at him. "Oh, well, then, I can put it in my pocket—"
"Don't you dare," Sherlock told her quickly, touching his fingers to the ring on her hand. "I couldn't have imagined any better way to ask you to be my wife."
Molly smiled at him."
"Besides, I so badly want to share the news of our baby that I couldn't care less if they're bombarding us with congratulations over the engagement. God knows they will be for the baby."
Molly nodded, pushing up on her toes to give him one more kiss. "Come on. They'll wonder where we've gone off to."
They turned and headed back up the path, both in much better spirits than they had been on the way down. It wasn't until Sherlock nudged her arm with his that she realized she was holding her free left hand over her stomach. She quickly lowered it, effectively hiding the ring as well, as they approached the patio and then reentered the party. They moved over to join John and Keala, still holding each other's hands. It wasn't long before someone noticed something was off.
"All right, what's going on?" asked John, frowning at Sherlock with a smile. "I haven't seen you in this good of a mood all night. No, hang on, I haven't seen you in this good of a mood
." His eyes then narrowed. "And where'd you two disappear to for a while?"
Sherlock rolled his eyes as Molly giggled, her face red. "For God's sake, John. We took a walk. Nothing happened."
Finding her opening, Molly leaned towards him a little. "Well, a couple things happened."
Taking her cue, Sherlock smiled as he looked over at her. "How could I forget?" He turned to face the rest of the party. "Ladies and gentlemen. Could I have your attention please?"
The partygoers quieted as John stared at Sherlock, thoroughly confused at this point.
"I have something I would like to share with you all," Sherlock announced. "All of you are aware of my history with drugs. Well, I was told recently that, because of them, I would never be able to have children." He paused to let those words sink in. He then looked towards Molly with a hundred-watt smile. "Which just goes to show that doctors are not always right."
Wondering how she wasn't bursting from the joy she was feeling, she smiled at everyone as their focus shifted to her. "We're going to have a baby."
There was a sudden eruption of cheers—mostly from Mrs. Holmes and Mrs. Hudson—as their friends and family started to move forward to congratulate them.
"And…" said Sherlock loudly enough to stop them all in their tracks, frowning as they wondered what else he possibly had to share, "I would like to draw your attention towards Molly's newest accessory." He grasped Molly's left hand and brought it up, showing off the engagement ring.
There was a renewal of cheers, possibly even louder than the first round. Their family and friends were finally allowed to come forward to offer their congratulations, ask their questions, and propose toasts. There may have been some ribbing from John and Greg Lestrade, some tearful hugs from his mother and Mrs. Hudson, but Sherlock really had no idea. He only had eyes for his beautiful fiancé, the woman who had given him the gift of a child, something he thought they never would have been able to experience. It was a true Christmas miracle.
