 Sherlock, along with its characters, location, etc. are the property of BBC and Sir Arthur Conan Doyle. I do not own them, though I definitely wouldn't mind being on a first name basis with Benedict Cumberbatch.
Takes place sometime after TFP. Sherlock is recklessly running around on a roof making deductions when he slips and almost falls off. John catches him just in time. Both of them have flashbacks, but to very different events. Hurt/comfort, angst. Platonic love confessions. One-Shot.
Okay y'all, I haven't written for Sherlock in a little while (I haven't written in general for a while, I've been busy with my summer job and my job applications now that I've graduated from college) but I just watched The Conjuring: The Devil Made Me Do It, and there was a scene that inspired me. I'm not going to spoil the movie for anyone who hasn't seen it, other than to say that I think Ed and Lorraine are just the most adorable married couple I have ever seen in the media and there was a scene in the movie that made me think of Sherlock and John and the premise of this story. But I digress, enjoy!
….
You Saved Me
….
John was, as usual, annoyed with Sherlock.
It had been a few months since everything went down with Sherlock's long-lost sister, Eurus, and things were finally going back to normal (well, their normal, anyway). The flat had been put back together, the way it was supposed to be, with barely a hint at the bomb damage that it had suffered a few months prior. John had moved back into the Baker Street flat, thanking his lucky stars that there were actually two spare bedrooms on the top floor (one for him and one for Rosie, when she was old enough), and repeatedly thanking Mrs. Hudson for flat-out refusing to up his rent for the extra room.
They had even started working cases again, now that the pair had overcome some of the trauma of the events at Sherrinford and Musgrave. This was the precise reason why John was currently annoyed with Sherlock.
They were working a murder case for Lestrade. Somehow, his methods still unknown to everyone but him, Sherlock had deduced that the man had been killed by a sniper from the roof of a nearby, 15-story building. He had taken off running, John pounding off behind him, as Lestrade swore and started barking into his radio.
Sherlock and John had made it to the roof in almost record time, banging through the door and onto a bare concrete floor with a very short wall surrounding the edge. John would guess that it was only around two feet high, which meant that it would be very easy to trip and fall over the edge.
Sherlock was strutting around the roof quickly, looking for clues and rattling off deductions about where the sniper set up his rifle and how he had gotten away unnoticed.
"Sherlock, will you please be careful? This roof isn't safe." John commented, following Sherlock around closely, knowing how clueless he could he when he was deducing.
"Hm? Oh I'll be fine, John, don't worry." Sherlock answered, not turning around.
"I'm gonna worry anytime you're on a rooftop, mate…" John muttered, just loud enough for Sherlock to hear him. He wasn't sure if that was intentional or not.
Sherlock made to turn around and answer when his shoe slipped in a puddle. He stepped back to try to correct himself, but tripped against the low wall. John seemed to watch in slow motion as Sherlock tipped over the edge of the roof, his arms cartwheeling.
"Sherlock!" he screamed. He lunged forward and desperately grabbed for one of Sherlock's flailing arms. He grabbed the sleeve of his friend's iconic Belstaff, but it ripped in his hand. Panic gripping his chest, John's grabbed for any purchase he could find. He bit his lip hard enough to draw blood, but didn't pay it any mind. He frantically gripping Sherlock's hand as it started to slip through his, thanking anyone who would listen that neither of them were wearing gloves that day.
John pulled as hard as he could, falling backwards onto the roof and pulling his friend on top of him. Sherlock rolled off of him, lying flat against the roof. Neither had let go of the other's hand.
They laid on the roof in silence for several minutes, the only sound between them being heavy breathing. John pressed his free hand against his chest, willing his heart to stop racing. When Sherlock had tripped over that wall and started to fall… he was so thankful for his army training, just then, because otherwise he may have frozen when he saw that image again instead of saving his friend.
"John… John I'm so… I'm so sorry, I should have listened to you and been more careful…" Sherlock stuttered through shaky breaths. He rolled his head to the side and looked at John, who still had panic in his eyes. "Oh my God, I can't believe I made you go through seeing something like that 
Sherlock scrubbed his free hand down his face. "John, I cannot explain…"
"Shut up, Sherlock." John breathed out. He didn't want to sound rude or angry, but hearing Sherlock apologize wasn't helping his oncoming panic attack. His breathing started to get shallower.
Sherlock, ever the genius, noticed that John was going into a panic. He quickly sat up, moving to sit behind John's head. He grabbed John under the arms and pulled him into a sitting position, leaning him back against his chest.
"John, can you hear me?" he asked, lacing his fingers through his friend's. John nodded. "Can you talk?"
"I… I think so…" John forced out of his heaving chest.
"Okay, I need you to list five things that you can see. Do it for me, John." Sherlock squeezed his hand.
"Um… Your feet. That puddle." He gestured with his head toward the puddle that Sherlock had slipped in. "The door. Clouds. A seagull."
"Okay, four things you can touch. I know you can do it."
"Your hand." John weakly squeezed his hand. "Your knee. The roof. Your coat." John fingered the rip in Sherlock's coat sleeve and swallowed shakily.
"Three things you can hear. Please." Sherlock tipped his head forward and lightly rested his cheek against the top of John's head.
"Traffic. Police sirens. Seagulls." John's breathing was evening out, and Sherlock could tell that he wasn't as tense had he had been.
"Two things you can smell, John. We're almost done."
"Your cologne. Car exhaust." John let out a long breathe.
"One thing you can taste."
"Blood. I bit my lip." John answered, touching one of his fingers against his lip and pulling it away, seeing a smudge of bright red on his fingertip. He tipped his head back and rested it against Sherlock's chest. He didn't let go of his friend's hand.
Sherlock rested his free hand on his leg. "Are you alright now?" he whispered against John's hair. John, thinking clearly for the first time since Sherlock almost fell off the roof, sincerely hoped that Lestrade wouldn't be making an appearance anytime soon.
"Yes." John breathed out. "Thank you."
"You shouldn't thank me for helping you out of a crisis that I created in the first place." Sherlock muttered. He moved to pull away from their sort-of embrace, but John didn't let go of his hand.
"Sherlock, it was an accident. I'm not going to get angry with you over an accident." John turned around to face his friend, tightening his grip on Sherlock's hand.
"I should have listened to you when you told me to be careful… and you probably wouldn't have had a panic attack if I didn't… you know…"
"Fake your death by jumping off a building and leave me to grieve for you for two years? Look Sherlock, I forgave you for that a long time ago. I understand that you didn't think you had another choice, and I don't fault you anymore. Yes, maybe you should have listened to me when I told you to be careful, but everything turned out fine. You're safe, I'm safe, everything is okay." John said. He resisted the urge to reach out and stroke his free hand over Sherlock's knee.
"All of this is my fault… why do you even put up with me?" he wrenched his hand out of John's and stood up, turning away. John stood up cautiously and hovered to Sherlock's right.
"I put up with you because I love you, Sherlock. I love 
not the media sensation. I know that you find yourself in, or actively look for, tight, dangerous spots. I know you love a challenge. I'm used to it, honest. I just think some of the pent-up anxiety from everything that happened with your sister, plus the acute trauma of when you jumped off St. Bart's" Sherlock flinched, "built up and caused me to panic. I'm fine now, mate, and I don't blame you." John reached up and patted Sherlock's shoulder.
Sherlock sniffed and pulled away from the hand on his shoulder. John may not have been a genius like the Holmes boys, but he had learned a few tricks over the years. "Sherlock, what is going on? You're acting scared. Did you get scared when you tripped? When I panicked? Did you…"
"All of the above, John! As soon as I saw your eyes as I was falling and you were reaching for me, I was terrified that you were going to shun me again. You say that you love me and you don't blame me, but you were saying the exact opposite back when Mary passed! How will I ever know when I've crossed the invisible line and made you hate me again?"
John staggered back, his mouth hanging slightly open. He couldn't believe that this was what was truly bothering his friend. But now that he thought about it…
"Sherlock, I… I never hated you. I just… I needed someone to blame, mate, and you were the closest target. I never… I never should have put that burden on you. I… I was just so heartbroken I needed to direct it somewhere else. I am… I am so, so sorry that I made you feel like you have to walk on eggshells around me. I mean, I know it was weird getting back into things at first, but I thought, after everything that happened with Eurus… I thought I had convinced you that I was loyal to you until the end. I am so sorry for getting that wrong. Sherlock…" John moved around to the front of his friend, reaching up and tilting the taller mans face so they were looking at each other in the eye. "You are my best friend, and I love you. You are the most important person in my life besides my daughter, and that will 
change, no matter what. I could never hate you, not really. You saved my life all those years ago. You saved me. I will always love you."
John noticed that Sherlock's eyes looked particularly glossy, as if they were covered by a thin layer of tears that the detective was trying to keep at bay. "You just returned the favor, John." Sherlock tipped his head back, blinking rapidly. "I, um, I love you too." He said, looking back down. "I always will. You didn't just save me here, on this roof. You saved me so many times over the years, in so many ways. I…" he paused. "Thank you."
Before the boys could do or say anything else, Lestrade and a few other officers strode through the door and onto the roof. Sherlock blinked back his tears and let go of John's hand, which he had been clinging to. He made his way over to the detectives and explained his deductions, staying several feet away from the edge.
John smiled.
….
If you liked this story, please consider leaving a review! Those always fuel my fire and encourage me to write more. Thank you!
