Going out to eat was a fairly rare occurrence for Sebastian Moran.
Well, he wasn't really a crowd person, but the abstinence had more to do with his boss/babysittee, Jim Moriarty.
Not that Jim didn't like going out. He did.
But those events usually culminated in at least three more for Jim's hit list, plus there was that memorable time that the table had been turned over, the window drapes set on fire, and the headwaiter found dead in the kitchen, impaled on his own serving fork.
So Sebastian was wary when Jim came strolling into the flat they shared and, plopping down on the couch and blithely stealing a section from the orange Sebastian was snacking on, announced that they were going out for dinner.
"Why?"
"Because we haven't done it in so long." Jim widened his eyes as far as they would go. "And there's a new place in town- it's called Dragon Moon Wok. I want to try it out. Plus, we can meet new people!"
Sebastian sighed. "Jim..."
"Please, Seb? Please please please pleeeeaaassse?"
That sing-songy tone was making an appearance. Lovely. "Will you behave yourself?"
"Of course!" Jim beamed. "I'll just go change. It's a casual sort of place. Give me five minutes."
Sebastian nodded in resignation. It seemed Dragon Moon Wok, despite Jim's promise to behave, was in for an eventful evening.
It wasn't thirty seconds into pursuing the menu that Sebastian's internal psycho-radar started beeping.
"Jim!" Leaning across the table, he snatched the small porcelain bowl away from his employer. "Cut that out!"
Jim pouted and reached across the table, sticking his hand back into the bowl of sugar cubes. "I like them."
"They're for tea, not snacking on. Did you order something?"
"Ehhh." Jim beckoned a waiter over. "One Lotus Plate, and black tea. Seb, what are you having?"
Sebastian, who had already decided he didn't like this establishment as he was not overly fond of Asian food, sighed. "Rice. Plain rice. And water."
"You're so booooooring," Jim whined playfully. He turned to the waitor. "Sebby also wants dessert."
"No, 'Sebby' does not," the sniper said firmly. "You've had enough sugar for now, boss."
Jim shrugged. The waitor bowed, and retreated.
He was back a few minutes later with the food and drinks, as well as a pair of chopsticks for each of them. "Please enjoy your meal."
Jim nodded absently, and started on his food. Sebastian eyed his rice.
"What's wrong with it?" Jim wanted to know, after swallowing. Sebastian shook his head.
"Nothing."
"So eat it," his employer suggested brightly.
Reluctantly, Sebastian began his dinner.
Sebastian woke.
For a moment, he wasn't sure why.
It was midnight, for crying out loud.
There was no sound coming from Jim's room, which seemed the likeliest source, and no s-
Retching.
The next instant, Sebastian was out of bed and padding quietly down the hall toward the sliver of light emanating from the slightly open bathroom door.
"Se...Seb?"
The reek of bile assailed the sniper's nose as he flipped on the light.
There was vomit in the toilet, in the sink, in the bathtub, on the floor, and decorating the T-shirt of-
"Jim!" The sniper knelt down beside his crumpled employer. Jim moaned softly, raising his left arm to try and shield his eyes from the light.
"It's okay, boss... Hang on." Sebastian half-rose and stretched out for the light switch again, throwing the room back into near-dark. "That better?"
Jim coughed, whimpered, and choked. Sebastian heaved him upright, and just managed to get his head over the rim of the sink before another symphony of retching sounded.
"Seb... Sebby..."
"Yeah." Sebastian turned on the tap, for the dual purpose of allowing Jim to rinse his mouth and to wash away the remnants of the orchestra. "I'm right here, boss."
Jim lapped thirstily at the stream of water. Sebastian resisted the urge to laugh at how canine that looked, and eased his employer back down onto the floor so he could be a bit more comfortable.
No, scratch that. The tile wasn't very comfortable at all, plus the bathroom still stank of puke."Do you want to go and lie down on the couch?"
Jim's only answer to that was to throw up again, this time just barely missing Sebastian's pants.
"All right," Sebastian sighed. "No couch."
He slid Jim's head carefully onto the floor, stood, grabbed the glass he usually used for brushing his teeth, and filled that with water. Washcloths in the cabinet under the sink. Run one under the water, wring it out. Sebastian dropped back to his knees and helped Jim sit up.
"I'm... make the cook... into shoes," Jim mumbled as he leaned back into the sniper's arm and took a sip of the water from the glass pressed to his mouth. "Ugly ones."
Sebastian smiled. "Let's get you feeling better, boss."
He began stroking at Jim's forehead with the washcloth, bracing his other arm across his employer's midsection, exerting a gentle, constant pressure. Jim gave a long sigh and slumped his entire body into Sebastian.
"Think you can get to the couch?" Sebastian suggested a few minutes later. Jim, who had fallen into a doze, blinked and mumbled something and shut his eyes again.
"Come on. The smell's getting to me." Sebastian helped Jim stand, then sort of carried-pulled-supported-coaxed-dragged him from the bathroom, down the hall, and into the living room.
"Can you get some water?" Jim asked hoarsely as the sniper let him down onto the couch. Sebastian nodded.
"Yeah. Try and stay awake, all right? Just for a minute."
"Mmmmmmph."
That, decided Sebastian as he stuck a cup under the tap and then headed quickly back up the hall to Jim's bedroom for a blanket, meant yes.
Jim slurped gratefully at the water Sebastian gave him. Sebastian took it, put it on the coffee table, and touched his employer's forehead.
"Bit of a fever. All right, lie down."
Jim flopped down, burying his face in a cushion. Sebastian laughed.
"No, you'll smother like that. Here."
He arranged the pillow so Jim could lie comfortably on it, then spread the blanket over him. Jim wriggled a bit, rolled over, then shut his eyes and fell into a doze again.
"Call me if you need me," Sebastian sighed, deciding he wasn't getting much sleep that night.
It was easier, when around Jim, just to accept what came your way.
As he almost always did, Sebastian woke up at eight-thirty.
The very first thing he did was wonder why he was crammed into an armchair sideways.
Oh.
