Molly finishes her last autopsy for the day and washes up before retiring to her office to grab her things. Suddenly she hears a voice at the door to the lab calling her name.
"Molly!? Molly!"
Sighing heavily with recognition of said voice, Molly peeks out of her office, not yet out of her lab coat. "Tom...hey, what-...what are you doing here?"
"Molly, we need to talk."
"I don't think there's much to talk about."
"Of course there is. We can't just be engaged one day and then nothing the next! I know we had our issues, but we can work on them. I want you back."
"There's no hope for us, Tom. Please just let it be."
"No. I can't. I- you're still mine and I still want you. So tell me what we need to do for that to happen. Please."
Molly rubs her face with fatigue from the day. "Look, nothing can be done. We were never going to survive, hm? Please just let it go. We are over. Alright?"
"No. It's not alright!", he raises his voice, getting angry. "I refuse to let you leave me because of that prick! I know that's why you left me! For some arsehole that'll never fucking love you. You realize that right? He doesn't fucking love you and never will. /I'M/ the best you'll ever have. I'm your option. Take me back!", he growls, pushing her slightly back into her office and blocking the exit.
"Leave me alone. I'm warning you, Tom! We are over, you need to move on."
"No, we aren't over, and we aren't done. Not until I say we are! I'm so sick of stupid bitches like you using me and dumping me! It's not over until I say it's over this time. You accepted when I proposed to you, so you're mine! You hear me? Mine!", he spits menacingly, advancing towards her.
"Tom, I mean it. I know how to use this scalpel and I don't want to hurt you. You're in my territory here. It's best if you leave and cool down." Molly holds the scalpel out in front of her defensively. She knew that Tom had a bit of an anger problem, but she has never seen him this furious before. It scares her and takes her back to her childhood and the abuse she suffered at the hands of her mother.
"Stop telling me what to do! I'm sick of everyone telling me what to do!", he screams.
"Tom...just...just...please hush, someone will hear you."
He scoffs amusedly. "No they won't, it's after hours. I know your work schedule, Molly. And even so, let them hear! Maybe they'll hear what a tramp you are. But you know what? You're mine, Molly. MY tramp. I'm not letting you get away from me so easily! You're not allowed to drop me like I was nothing! Hear me? You are not getting away from me any time soon!"
He lunges towards her and Molly gasps, quickly swiping her arm so that she cuts his cheek with the scalpel. Suddenly Sherlock walks into the lab. Tom lets out an angry yelp as he grabs her arms, pushing her back and pinning her against the wall hard, extracting a small groan from her.
Sherlock shouts at him angrily to get off of her, but before he can attack him, Molly knees Tom hard in the groin. When he doubles over, she smashes her arm hard into his neck, making him fall into a curled-up heap on the floor.
Molly breathes hard with adrenaline and tosses the scalpel onto her desk shakily, shocked that she had just cut him.
"You fucker", Sherlock growls angrily as he kicks Tom hard in the torso, emitting a loud grunt of pain from him, then leans down and presses his fingers into the pressure point on Tom's neck, causing him to sulk back unconscious on the ground.
"Molly", Sherlock murmurs, standing up quickly and cupping her face. "Are you okay? Are you alright? Did he hurt you?", he pants, seemingly as adrenaline-rushed as she is.
"Sherlock, I-I'm okay, I'm fine. I had it handled", she mumbles, still a bit overwhelmed. "I-I'm alright...", she squeezes her eyes shut as Sherlock draws her close and holds her tightly against him. Sherlock can help but feel the rage bubbling inside him when Molly begins to weep into his chest quietly, overrun with emotion as she thinks of how horrible she was for hurting him like that, despite his own horrid actions towards her.
"It's alright...I'm here. You're not alone, I've got you." He quickly dials Lestrade and explains the situation to him. Sherlock continues to hold Molly protectively while eyeing the woolen blob on the floor.
"I know", she sniffles and takes uneven breaths. "Sherlock, I take a self-defense class every year. I don't know if you knew that. I know where every pressure point in the body is, and yet my brain just short-circuited for a minute until I remembered a-a little of it. But I-I did freeze a bit and...I shouldn't have cut him. Oh God, I shouldn't have cut him. I just freaked out.
Sherlock strokes her hair soothingly as he breathes in the scent of her strawberry vanilla shampoo; a welcoming contrast to the smell of lemon formaldehyde. "I know you are capable of defending yourself. But now I really know never to cross you. And if anyone does cross you, then they cross me too. I have your back when you need it. Always. I also know now that I was lucky to get off with only some slaps then."
Molly giggles softly and wipes her face, looking up at him. "I'm sorry I dragged you into this...wh-...why are you here so late anyway?"
"I er...just finished a case. I figured you were working late. I know you usually do on Tuesdays. I...suppose I was going to ask you for dinner."
Molly looks up at him shocked, but before she can say a word, D.I Lestrade, two officers, and an EMT rush into her office. They assess Tom, and once he's awake they question both of them.
When it comes out that Molly cut him, and Tom is saying that he lunged at him first, Sherlock tries to cut in but is quickly shut down when asked if he was here when she cut him. Lestrade apologizes profusely to both of them but states that he has to take both Molly and Tom into custody since it's a 'he said/she said' case.
"That's preposterous! Greg, you know very well Molly wouldn't hurt a fly unless she had to!"
"Sherlock, I DO know that. But neither of us were here. The law says I have to take them both into custody for the night. I'm just doing my job. I'm sorry. You know I don't want to."
Sherlock huffs and rubs his jaw frustratingly as he watches Molly also being put into handcuffs. "Molly I-I will get you out, don't worry. I'll see you very soon. I promise."
Molly looks ashamed and bites her lip, nodding slowly as she is led out to one police car and Tom is put in another.
As they are driven away, Sherlock quickly hails a cab back to Scotland Yard. Three hours later, Molly's bail is paid by him, and she appears from where the holding cells are, blushing and exhausted looking.
"Molly!", Sherlock rushes over and places his hands carefully on her shoulders. "Are y-"
"I'm fine, Sherlock", she smiles weakly. "Just...tired and famished is all."
"Of course you are. I'll get some takeout from Angelo's on our way back to your home and you can eat there since you're tired. I'll even stay with you for the night if you're afraid, and I'll arrange for one of Mycroft's drivers to be dropped off at Bart's so they can bring your car back."
Molly turns red and nods, too tired to argue.
Back at Molly's house, she is freshly showered, her hair damp, wavy, and hanging down around her shoulders and framing her face the way Sherlock has always secretly liked, since it's so rare to see without it in its signature ponytail or a bun of sorts. She is changed into some sweats and an oversized sweatshirt as they eat dinner on her sofa, watching crap telly. Sherlock doesn't mind letting her though, after the ordeal she has been through. In fact, he finds himself staring at her more than normal and thinking about how beautiful she looks regardless of the sweats and tired look on her face.
He finishes his food and without being asked, discards all of the takeout trash left on the table. Molly looks over at him appreciatingly, and he nods. One of the things he loves about their friendship is that they can communicate with a look. It's been a thing for quite a few years now. Since after his 'fall'.
Resuming his place on her sofa, he allows her to lean on his arm as she spaces out for some peace. Moments later, she is fast asleep, her arms hugging his arm to her. Sherlock swallows the lump in his throat at the rush of fondness that overcomes him looking at her like that.
After a moment, making sure she is sound asleep, Sherlock very carefully scoops her into his arms and carries her to her bed, tucking her in softly.
He decides to stay in the guest bedroom that night, as he leans in to press a gentle kiss to her forehead. Focusing on her for a quiet minute, he whispers, "Maybe one day I'll build up the courage to tell you, but I think I may just love you, Molly Hooper."
