John had just returned from Afghanistan. He was standing behind some police tape knowing Sherlock was somewhere in the middle of all this. Mainly because Mycroft sent him here. He waves to a lady and she walks over to him.
"Sorry sir you aren't allowed past the tape" The lady said, he later learned was Donovan.
"I'm the new consultant, I was told to come here…" He says slowly knowing that'll get him past the tape. She looks shocked for a moment before nodding and lifting the tape up allowing John in. "So where's the body?" John asks with a grin, making Donovan eye him suspiciously. Though she did nothing and just led him to the scene.
Once they made it up the stairwell with John's slow pace he notices Sherlock bent over the body examining the woman's fingernails before abruptly standing back up. "Anderson can you be any more dull 
 is 
 not revenge…. Amatures" Sherlock mutters the last bit then walks around the room completely unaware of John striding up to the body himself. Donovan walks to Lestrade to explain John's presence.
"No visible signs of death, and no stench of alcohol so-"
"Drugged. Yes, yes I know" Sherlock interrupts still not looking over at John. He was far too absorbed in the case. With a swirl of his coat he faces Lestrade. "The case, where's the victims suitcase!"
Greg looks confused and shakes his head. "Mate there's no suitcase…" John hums seeing how Sherlock got to that conclusion. "There has to be one, these stains on her legs indicate the splash pattern of suitcase wheels…" John says offhandedly. Greg looked over at John in surprise as Anderson seethed quietly.
"Great… another freak" Anderson mutters. John looks up and stands up calmly, too calmly. He strides towards Anderson with his limp. "Sorry mate… care to repeat that." John says with a sweet smile. Anderson pales and shakes his head quietly. Now all eyes were on the two of them, including Sherlock's whose face had a huge grin. "Now tell me, you don't happen to call Sherl freak too…" John continues, seeing Anderson's face pale more he sighs. "Well mate you'll stop because Sherl isn't a freak he's bloody amazing. If I hear that word come out of your mouth 
 more time… well you'll find out what an army doctor is capable of." John grins then backs away from Anderson looking at Greg.
"Get your men to look in a 5 mile radius, a pink suitcase." He grins then looks at Sherlock who was still staring at John with a wide grin. "Hey Sherl, long time yeah?" Sherlock chuckles then walks to John and wraps the man in a hug.
"You blocks know each other" Greg asks, seeing their interaction. John chuckles and looks up at Sherlock before looking at Greg smiling.
"Yeah this man's my best friend, has been since primary" John states proudly. "Taught me all I know today, still not as amazing as him though"
"You're getting much better, John, don't downplay your skills. Most men wouldn't be able to grasp this like Anderson" Sherlock grins. Anderson sputters in the background then storms off. "Your home early. Your tour doesn't end for another month so you were injured. Psychosomatic limp and a… 
!" Sherlock's eyes widen as John sighs quietly.
"It's nothing Sherl doesn't matter anyways though I can't be a surgeon anymore." John says, shrugging slightly before letting out a stifled yawn. Sherlock, noticing everything, turns to Greg.
"Been a long day Gregson. I'll come back to you with the case solved soon enough" Sherlock says then wraps his arm over John's shoulder and leads him away from the crime scene. "...you'll love Mrs. Hudson…. Tea…." Sherlock talks as they depart.
"They have to be more than just friends" Sally says out loud once they are gone. Making everyone nod and agree
