You sit in silence sometimes. I wonder if my rumination has become contagious, if you've contracted a part of me. But then again clearly you have, and yet I am resilient to believe it; whenever the notion crosses me there is a hint of trepidation in my heart as if my thoughts are somewhat daring to even imagine. But of course – I don't imagine. All of the information has gathered and the conclusion is before my eyes… and yet I refuse to see it. Perhaps I am afraid of these emotions I find myself dwelling in, or perhaps it is the idea of how you might… react.
Right now is no time to test these theories: your gaze is flickering. What are you looking at? What figments of your restless mind dance before your eyes? My dear companion, what are you thinking about? Normally I can read you like a book, but now it seems the words scribbled across your pages are washed out, leaking across the parchment. But if I were reading, the logical solution would not put the novel at fault.
Focus. Now… what are you contemplating? You seem to have a hint of a smile, two or three muscles easing up one side of your lip – and yet not whole heartedly. Do you know I am watching? Of course you do – you know by now I am always watching. You know me well enough; after all we've been through in each other's company, to know many things of me that others are clueless of. But then again, most people are clueless of most things. I am glad that you know, not for my own comfort of another's understanding, but that you know.
Hmm, what is wrong with me? Never has my mind drifted so much as this. Such a simple task I have set myself and yet-
"Problem?" you ask, turning your open face to mine, head somewhat tipped; like a woodland creature taking notice of the first falling leaf. So you had noticed… I can see now: you're somewhat fascinated, wondering what I am doing. Oh, how interest can work both ways… although possibly my speeding pulse is no interest of yours. Or perhaps you do not notice the way my spine commands itself straighter when you turn to me, the way a grin wriggles out of me as though my instinct to meet you. Worse – perhaps it does not matter to you.
"Not at all," I answer coolly. You know me well enough to know that I am disguising myself, intentionally covering my intentions, but I doubt you know why.
Your smile bubbles to the surface, your eyes glowing at the sound of my voice (not to be egotistical – I know the way you react by now). "C'mon, Sherlock – what were you thinking about?" you question, your tone suggesting something akin to teenage gossip. And so I shall give you some 'drama', or at least something you might appreciate. Uncrossing my legs and leaning forward onto my knees, I raise my eyebrows; you naturally begin to lean away despite being on the other side of the room, as if a little intimidated or uncertain, and then your smile re-strengthens and you mirror me, perching on the edge of the sofa, attentions firm.
For a second, we gaze into each other. I feel my tongue beginning to dry up, roll it around the inside of my lips. I can almost hear your tense breathing; it's as though you still can't understand how I am really here, really alive, even though I know you believed all along; just as I believed you would still be hanging around in 221B when I returned.
I keep us both in suspense for a moment longer, wondering how he might react to my simple offer to follow – let alone…
And so, dropping my voice to a husk, knowing at least that will not escape your notice – pupils dilating, a slight flinch in your fingertips; amazing how that always works, on almost anyone really – I ask, "Dinner?"
Your beam is my reward.
The streets are cold this evening, winter dropping over the city quickly like an avalanche without the dignity to manifest, and it is with the greatest comfort that I huddle into my coat and scarf, collar turned up and striding by your side. Although perhaps that final statement is in fact the greatest comfort, the others simply welcome. But as we step to the curb I can almost hear the gears whirring in your mind – I wonder if you are considering where we are going, or who is paying, or what to eat, or what this implies. You know I don't eat out; you have probably therefore drawn the conclusion that this venture is for you. Unless you believe I would course the streets in relevance to some case or another, or perhaps just to keep you on your toes I might lead you about the streets and-
Wait, where did you go..?
"This way!" you yell over your shoulder. The grin that graces my cheeks is no less than pure joy as I kick up my heels and charge after you down into an alley. Your old lack of direction has split away into an unexplained ease of navigation as I watch you dodge bins as if you knew their exact locations, and in my watching you I clumsily trip and stumble more times than maybe in my whole life.
"Hurry up, slowpoke!"
Your teasing spurs me on with a chuckle and a sparkling brilliance in my heart. As the shadows swallow and spit us up time and again I feel within myself the hints of something I had believed myself to have overcome as a child: anxiety. A bin tumbles as I catch it with my heel, and then as though drinking air through a straw, I shiver and push myself onward. Finally I round a corner, to find you leant against it partly doubled over at the hip, breathless not from exhaustion but from laughter. Just as it used to be.
Grinning I sidle over to you, just to catch you whisper, "God, I missed you…"
Suddenly my heart is in my throat and all I can do is stand at your side, smiling tensely.
You know why I had to leave; why bring that up again now? I have been back for weeks now… Yet that is not to deny that I may have missed your company as well; I missed you bitterly. Never before had I tasted loneliness, but every day I had been away, it had been like I was choking on sea water. Had I not returned, I am certain my antagonising would have drowned me.
But words betray me now. Your hand rests on my bicep, and although at first I only sense your warmth, after a few moments my nerves make me flinch. You notice – of course you do – it is not in my character to react to emotional stimuli.
You withdraw your hand, a hazel overtone in your forest eyes, dark with sudden worry. I can almost feel your anxiety as a thick fog around us. You have seemed more urgent recently, even for you; indeed it has become to be a source of fear for me as well. "Is there something wrong?"
A pause; honestly I do not know the words to say. A neutral expression on my face as I find myself studying your features for the millionth time. Every crease in your forehead a canyon of experience in your life; every ripple of your lips something to experience. Something I have no prior knowledge of, and increasingly find myself inexplicably wanting to learn.
Well – I say inexplicably…
"Really, you can talk to me," you whisper, now looking deep into my eyes, your own searching, "you know you can."
What I want to say is that I regretted leaving. What I want to say is that I had missed you as well, and that in light of the events, I never want you to- to leave my side. But what I want to say to you, I can hardly say to myself.
Even if I should whisper it, the words would have wasted away, while the fear would ring in my mind until you would reply.
My smile has dropped, but I revive it, hands softly clenching themselves as I suddenly find myself fighting the desire to stroke your cheek. The notion clashes with reason, and I almost resent myself for wanting to do so, so much so that I edge away from you. But you are still waiting for an answer; I almost wish you would forget the question.
Luckily, you understand, murmuring, shifting foot to foot and glancing about, "Look, it's alright. I- no, I don't get what's going on in your head, because you're Sherlock and I'm just John but… when you're ready, you will let me in on whatever's going on, right?"
"You're never 'just John', John," I whisper. Now you seem to think I have spoken too loudly, clearing your throat, licking your lip as you always used to, averting your gaze. I wonder why you won't look at me: what are you afraid to see?
I follow your gaze for a moment, before realising there's nothing more interesting than the man before me, albeit slightly below me. I smile again, reach out with trepidation, pat your shoulder: firm, yet at the same time, easily swayed. You look to me and I raise my eyebrows.
"Shall we?"
The restaurant is quiet and the waiter glances at us through narrowed eyes and narrower glasses that perch on his nose. He does not recognise me, but he seems to think he might recognise the relationship between myself and yourself. I am not about to alter his mind, although I can see you beginning to stir in the corner of my eye, fizzling with frustration. I try not to let you see my smile, but I cannot deny that I enjoy seeing you denying this. Tell me, what message do you believe that sends out?
He seats us by the window, hands us our menus and then lights the candle as though displeased to be doing so. I catch his eye for an instant, seeing a glimpse of his pure discomfort; wonder what he thinks is going on. And in my peripheral I watch you stir, my gaze not swaying as you begin to bristle, and you clear your throat, about to say something, and then-
"Excuse me, sir?" you say, drawing yourself taller and beginning to frown. I watch as though being personally entertained, waiting for the classic stand against our perception, although I am sure I will never understand why it means so much to you that we are not seen as a couple. And tonight your vocabulary to express this is: "What is your soup of the day?"
Flummoxed, I just blink and stare as he advises you, asks if we would like him to return after we've had time to decide, and you glance to me before sending him away and-
"You didn't tell him that we're not a couple," I state pointlessly, still somewhat baffled. The rude waiter frowns back briefly as he overhears.
Picking up your menu you flicker your shaded eyes to me, smiling gently, and then glancing into the menu. You remain silent for a few seconds, before quietly telling me, "Perhaps you'd surprise me tonight by eating something."
I would have asked what that mattered to you, but you had won this round fairly, and so I hold my tongue, give a slight nod, and for once press my observations into the back of my mind long enough to pick a meal. And I do, and we order, and again you do not defend our friendship, and again I find myself withdrawing to consider my emotions. It is true – I had missed you, aggressively so; upon my return seeing you had been one of the greatest moments of my life, even when you had threatened to physically attack me for the harm I had caused, because I had wanted to beat myself up for leaving you; and now every time I see you is like that first time. I have never valued a person so highly; but whether the conclusion to draw from that is one of love is yet to be seen.
Perhaps now is the time to question that. Perhaps tonight should be the night I tell you what you mean to me.
Or perhaps these are all idle thoughts; after all, my last intention is to lose my only friend.
"You're struggling with something, aren't you?" you pick up, and suddenly I am no longer looking at the cutlery. But again I have nothing to say; instead I watch your hands fidgeting on the table; would it be alright to take that to mean you want to take my hand? Or is this a jump of the imagination? "Sherlock-" I think I might be right "-I know there haven't been any cases recently, but it has to be a little slow after… everything."
This isn't about cases. I almost feel insulted that you think that, but I let it pass. "Please don't mention that," I mutter. "It happened. It's over now."
You narrow your eyes, now seeming more suspicious of me. Perhaps you, similarly to myself, are wondering why my emotions suddenly have so much weight. Again you say my name to begin. "Sherlock, you're acting… weirdly. Even for you."
I must be right; you start to lean further over the table, muscles twitching to reach out, smiling warmly, invitingly. You notice that I don't withdraw; perhaps you notice my pupils dilate the closer you are (and this is not a new development tonight). I keep my arms folded, even though we may be sharing the want to hold hands. I gulp quietly.
"Please – trust me."
"I always have done," I whisper, too muffled for you to hear, and even my ears strain to make sense of these words. But- but yes. I have always, always trusted you…
"What was that?"
Tongue loosened, I suddenly begin to talk. "I waited three years before I could return, and through it all, I missed you the most," I present my first case. "My emotions began to take over – I couldn't sleep, couldn't speak, could hardly even think – because you were always on my mind, and yet I denied myself."
I begin to grin, realisation washing over me, putting me at ease as though I had solved the unsolvable.
"I was waiting for the day I could return, through away the numbers I had been clinging onto, counting by date by date. The- the irrelevant details were weighing me down when the only thing I had to solve was…"
I trail off, shaking my head, adding quietly, "Ha! My greatest mystery was myself; how poetic…"
I ease open my crossed arms, lay my hand across the table, lock my eyes to yours, certainty brimming in me; or at least, hope that I wasn't being a colossal idiot. "And now it's as though… as though we've started again."
I seem to have lost my breath; you're looking at me as though I have lost my mind, and yet it has never been clearer. Now time seems slow, relaxed. I breathe as though all these years I had never tasted air. But now the seconds are heavy with the need for your confirmation; I glance to my open palm and meet your gaze there.
You're fidgeting.
And then our meals arrive.
With new senses brimming with information in every mouthful, it is almost easy to erase the tension, and yet we still eat in broken silence, eyes darting at every clink of cutlery or scrape of plates. I steal glances at you when I can, remembering all those 'bachelor' comments. Have I misread the signs? Have I betrayed my own hopes? Have I misunderstood my ability to trust you?
The doubts in my mind seem so alien, and although I can only see you to blame, somehow I cannot put you at fault. After all, you are still here. Remember when they had mocked you, teased you, warned you away from me? Told you that maybe you'd be better away from me, and then ruffled your hair and snickered at your jumpers as if you were some kind of pet. Do you remember being called that?
God, this sentimentality sickens me, and yet comes with such ease regarding you and us. I feel as though I remember every detail, and those I have discarded, I regret losing. When I had been away I had felt the same: as though I had pushed aside the memories, and no matter how hard I clawed, they were gone. My usual manner of thinking does not lend itself to any form of relationship: my eye for detail of all that is suspicious or wrong or 'evil'.
I catch your eye, and for an instant, your lips tremble to an uncertain smile; and then as though retreating inside your sandy jumper, you huddle again away from me.
I want to ask you to look up, but I have nothing to say to you if you would. I could say that I never want you to leave my side, or that I don't want to stray from yours again. But perhaps I would only encourage this tense silence.
Before I have focused I have finished my food, and yet still stab my fork down, the scraping clawing across my mind and dragging me into reality. You, chewing, stare at me, thinking I am attempting to gain your attention, thinking I am only being rude and inconsiderate.
When you finish your mouthful, you take a deep breath and grumble, "You've been away so long: you pay." And in a blur of coat, you're out the door.
I clench my jaw and my heart, and remain in my seat although every muscle begs that I chase after you.
There is a rush of frozen air as it slams. I watch you shoving your hands into your jacket, huddling, a stream of mist clinging to you as best it can but wasting away anyway. Your head turns as if to look back, but you seem to resolve not to, and in a few seconds, you have vanished into the alleyway.
It seems I have found more time to consider my actions, and over the sluggish minutes a pit forms within me, seeming acid and yet a solid mass and eating away at my insides. I drum my fingers slowly on the table, my meal having provided no warmth as I watch the windows forming droplets and people busying themselves past the window, but none of them as interesting as you. I feel sick with emotions writhing in my stomach, and yet I wait for the bill.
"Boyfriend troubles?" a snide comment scrapes into my world, and I glare round, eyes flaring with anger, but I take a sharp breath.
"Yes," I answer coldly. The same judgemental waiter blinks back.
I give him no tip, and don't look back as I hurry out the door.
John.
You are all I can think about as I stumble back through the black streets. London screams at my pure stupidity; how did I possibly think rambling all of that off would endear you to me? Am I so stubborn that I expected him to appreciate my actions because of all my previous errors? Yes. Honestly, yes. God!
John. Have you gone home, our home? Or should that now be your home? Is it simply that I was away for too long?
Or was it the fall?
No – you already beat me up over that, and surely you realise I hate myself for it, probably more than you hate me over this. Do you hate me though? We smile and laugh as it always was… but then again, things are not the same. It never could be the same. Never will be.
But that is not my fault; you and I both recognise the need here. And perhaps you don't realise that I did it for you. Of course, largely it was for myself, to keep myself in the realm of the living, but it was also to protect you.
You, John, you!
I rub my hands over my face, my gait stopping altogether, teeth clenching, and suddenly I just want to hurt. Violence takes over me in a rush of hormones I haven't felt since I was a teen, or at least, have managed to repress since then. Useless, pathetic things, emotions, creating drama out of nothing, because there is nothing, there is never anything, nothing for bloody sociopath who hates everyone!
Everyone but.
I fist my hands and feel myself shivering with anger – but take a breath, force my shoulders to lower, slam shut my eyes and just listen.
Sirens: the panicking mind. Cars fuming: the inertia that always is and always will be. Dogs barking and lashing: the constant although distant remnant of danger.
And then – and then the creaking of an un-tuned violin:
Hope. Simple joy. Relaxation.
John.
And suddenly my legs work again; I am running and dodging with ease, the world seeming to draw itself around me but there is only one form of art I am focused on: the music screeching out of our apartment. It is out of tune and harsh and yet it has promise; such is life itself. I know I can teach you to play it, that is, if you want to learn. What are you doing with it anyway? You used to be annoyed by my playing it; I never did play a full tune, only shards of songs. I will learn to play the good notes for you.
I'm running and suddenly I'm at the door, and I hesitate and stare blankly at the curling black paint for a moment, before the yelping tones demand me inside, for the good of the neighbours and so that I can see you. I am light on the stairs, don't want you to stop playing before I am there, thinking to myself, Shall I tell him? Should I just come out and say it – no skirting around the topic, no avoiding the words he wants to hear?
But does he even want to hear them?
It didn't really matter though; I want to say them.
I would tell him tonight.
Why not? It's just words.
Actually that it a false statement: it isn't just a word.
It means more than most people will ever understand.
It cannot be defined, except perhaps by a small man in an oversized jumper.
John.
I pause at the top of the stairs, not even daring to draw breath, hardly risking moving my eyes in case you hear the blinking. I don't need to look around anyway: my gaze has rested on you, clumsily dragging the bow back and forth, every now and then cringing and muttering for it to be quiet. I wonder if you can hear my beaming.
"Oh- crap," you grumble. "How the hell…"
I almost flinch as the instrument cries out again, and then you stop, withdrawing the bow as though it were a weapon. "Sorry, sorry!"
I almost want to whisper for him not to worry. But instead I take a shallow breath, step forward, unsure of what to say or what to do but knowing I want to be closer to him. Why am I moving? What am I doing?! I could be about to make the biggest mistake of my life and yet my heart is racing and my muscles clenching and I open my mouth and-
I reach an arm round your waist; at first you jump and are about to move away, but for some unknown reason you let me put my hand over yours, guiding the bow up to the strings, gently teasing a note from the violin in one simple swish. My free hand rests on your left side easily and yet I can hardly believe what I am doing and I draw myself closer to you, feeling your warmth welcoming me, inhaling your sweet musk scent, watching your eyelashes flutter as you turn your head to look back at me.
"Sherlock- what are you-"
I snicker a little, "No idea… Problem?"
"Not… exactly…"
You squirm away, probably one of the biggest advantages of your size, leaving me standing with the flexed bow in hand, still feeling the echoes of your body against my chest. You set the violin down quickly, turn back to me, arms closely folded. "What's going on?" he demand. "Don't give me any of your attempts at emotion – is this some kind of experiment or something? Is Mycroft watching us? Is- is this some kind of joke to you?"
You hurt me. I strain not to lie and walk away. Tonight. No matter what. I will tell you tonight.
In fact, now.
Suddenly I feel like there's a lump in my throat; I can't speak; all I can do is watch you growing ever more aggressive and suspicious – and rightly so. In a random spur of creativity I spin the question on its head: "What were you doing playing my violin?"
You blush. I've seen you awkward before, I've seen you nervous, but never blushing like this. Your face flushes pink, your gaze darts. I find myself starting to smile at my foregone conclusion.
Before I know what I'm saying I murmur, "You love me."
"Wh-what?" you call up, and now you begin to defend. "Sherlock- I- yes, you're my friend, why wouldn't I-"
"I never said as a friend."
You stop, shades of pink rapidly approaching red. But I can feel it acutely that this wasn't how I had planned it; I'm beginning to sound like I am mocking you, and that is the last thing I want to do.
And now you're embarrassment has ticked over into anger, and your fist clenches and you stride up to me, staring dead up at me, snatching the bow from my hand, tossing it to the sofa and I watch it whip across, and then you tell me angrily, "Yes, Sherlock. I love you. Is that what you wanted?"
"Of course it is," I whisper. I want to kiss you. Every part of me commands me to kiss you and yet I am completely still, rigid and terrified and relieved, rose-tinted, care bundling into my heart as though a ball of wool.
Luckily, you're less of an idiot.
You reach a hand round the back of my head, crane me down and press your lips harshly to mine and for a second my eyes are wide in uncertainty and- and then you soften, exhale, and I draw myself closer, shut my eyes; my lips tremble but you don't seem to mind, still holding me, your other hand curling round my neck, stroking the last few curls, as your lips start to part mine and then my virginity causes me to flinch away, only to realise my hands are resting on your hips, one finger beginning to trail lower and-
I gasp at myself, blinking as heat flushes over me, my whole body tingling, and manage to utter, "Is that what- you wanted?"
You tip your head, grinning, "Yeah, something like that." And then you giggle a little like a school girl, wrap your arms tighter round me and hug me close, nuzzling against me as I twine myself around you. "Oh my God, you're…alive."
Even though I don't really understand, I beam all the same; there is plenty of time for me to try and figure you out.
