Johnny flopped down on the dry, brittle dead grass, tears rolling down his cheeks despite his efforts to keep them back, and lay face-down on the ground, resting his face on his arms. The chilly late-December wind seemed to blow right through his thin, threadbare jacket, making him shiver, but for once, he didn't care that it was cold outside. It was Christmas Day, but Daddy had completely spoiled it, ruined it for everyone.
First, the week before, he had taken Mummy's Christmas money—all of it—and used it to buy himself some bottles of booze, so that she'd had no money to buy any presents for her family; she'd had to make everybody's presents instead, and she had only had a short time to do that. Then, the night before, on Christmas Eve, Daddy had stayed up all night, drinking. As if that wasn't enough, early that morning, when it was time for everyone to open their gifts, Daddy had knocked the Christmas tree over in a drunken rage, and then he had taken the present Mummy had made for Johnny, and the gifts that the child had received from his sister, Granny Leekey, and their across-the-street neighbour, Mrs. Templeton (whom Johnny and Harry had always addressed as Aunt Alice), and had destroyed them before Johnny had even had a chance to open them.
Afterwards, Daddy had destroyed Mummy's own gifts, the ones that Johnny, Harry, Granny, and Mrs. Templeton had all given her. An ugly shouting match between Mummy and Daddy had followed, and now Mummy was hiding in the kitchen's walk-in cupboard, and Daddy had left their prefab still in a rage.
Thanks to Daddy, Johnny and Mummy had 
 now—
 Christmas presents, and 
 Christmas tree! The only reason Harry had the presents she'd received from Mummy and Johnny was because Mummy had mailed them to her days before, at Granny's house in Penrith, Cumbria, where Harry had been living ever since the year before, when she'd been 16 and Johnny had been ten. Mrs. Templeton had also mailed Harry a Christmas present. At least, there was no danger that Daddy would destroy 
 gifts!
"I hate him!" He managed to choke back his sobs. "I hate him! I hate him! I hate him!" He slammed his left fist against the cold, hard ground.
Time passed as the 11-year-old boy lay there, shivering in the cold wind and striving to keep his sobs from bursting out of his throat; he didn't attempt to keep track. He didn't care what time it was. Mummy most likely wouldn't make anything to eat that day, anyway, not after what Daddy had done; she would probably stay in the cupboard, with the door locked from the inside, for the rest of the day, if not longer. Gradually, his sobs stopped threatening to erupt, and then Johnny just lay there, still shivering, a heavy stone of misery in his gut. He didn't care if he didn't go back into the prefab at all. In fact, he didn't even want to.
His mother's so-often spoken words, 
 crept into his mind at one point, and he clenched his fists. How many times had Mummy told him and/or Harry that through the years, when their father had done something terrible to them, as he had that morning? 
this
 he silently screamed, pounding his left fist on the grass.
At last, with a sigh, Johnny got up on his feet, cleared his throat, and wiped the tears off his face with his left palm; glancing up at the grey overcast sky, he trudged towards the rickety garden shed. At least there was no danger that he would cry now, but he didn't feel like going back into their detached aluminium prefab bungalow anytime soon. Maybe he'd spend the rest of the day in the shed, and the night, too. There was an old, dirty, threadbare blanket that someone had tossed into one of the shed's corners, and not far from it was an old sleeping bag that Mrs. Thompson had bought for Johnny and Harry at the nearby charity shop when he'd been six; he could wrap himself up in it and the blanket. He couldn't go to Mrs. Templeton this time; she was spending the day with Mrs. Russell and her family, and she wouldn't be home until the next day. Oh, well, Mrs. Russell 
 her daughter; it was only proper that Mrs. Templeton spend Christmas Day with her. But it meant that Johnny couldn't go to her for comfort and perhaps help on that day as on most occasions, he could.
The garden shed's ramshackle door creaked as Johnny swung it open; it slammed shut behind him as soon as he let it go. Seconds later, on the other side of the shed, after he had unzipped the sleeping bag and wrapped it around his body, he slid down the wall till he was sitting with his knees up against his stomach and his face pressing against his knee and covered himself with the old, scratchy, threadbare blanket. At least he was out of the cold wind now; he could hear it whistling outside, though. The anger and grief that had etched Mummy's face when Daddy had destroyed their presents kept coming before his face as he sat hunched there in the dark. He wasn't the only one who was miserable; Mummy was, too.
 he silently wondered, rubbing his left fingertips back and forth in the dirt. 
 Mrs. Templeton always gave the family late Christmas gifts on Boxing Day when Daddy had ruined it for his family. Johnny pursed his lower lip. 
 Bitterness surged in his heart. 
He clenched both hands into fists and pressed them against his legs. How many times had Daddy ruined their Christmas because he was drunk? Too many! If he wasn't destroying presents or knocking down their tree, he was shouting at Johnny or his mummy, and/or hitting them. Only a minority of their Christmases, such as the one they'd celebrated when he'd been seven, had been good Christmases, and even then, Daddy had typically done something prior to Christmas Day to cause Johnny, Harry, or Mummy pain. Johnny still had the Action Man he'd received that Christmas.
 Thankfully, Daddy had never destroyed it as he had some of Johnny's other toys.
As Johnny's surging emotions cooled down, he began to look back on his previous Christmas celebrations. Even when their Christmases had been good, they had still never been like rich kids' Christmases, or like the Christmases that most of his classmates at his new school, the King Edward VI Grammar School, got to celebrate. Johnny had started attending the local KEGS back in September, after he'd finished his years at 
Kings Road Infant School and 
Kings Road Junior School, in that order, and he loved it there. He was in Year 7 at KEGS; unlike his years of school on Kings Road, he took a minibus to KEGS. His classmates always got to get their Christmas trees a few weeks before Christmas Day arrived—no waiting till Christmas Eve to buy one for them! Not as Johnny's family always had to do. 
 he thought. 
And it was the same way on his classmates' birthdays, he'd learned; in fact, some of his new classmates even got to have birthday parties! One of his classmates had received a brand-new bicycle for his last birthday, and another had received a remote-controlled toy car for his birthday the year before. Mummy, Granny Leekey, and Mrs. Templeton, on the other hand, could never afford more than modest presents for Christmas or birthdays, and never more than one or two gifts at a time; Johnny couldn't even dream of bicycles or toy cars that operated on remote control. Mummy made some of her family's gifts and bought the rest at Poundstretcher and the charity shop. If it wasn't for his godmother and Granny, he and Harry would have never received more than one or two gifts at Christmastime 
 on their birthdays; as it was, they never got more than four or five at a time on each of the two yearly occasions, and that was only because Johnny and Harry always received gifts from each other as well as from the adults. And when Daddy was drunk, they didn't get to have 
, because he always destroyed them, and the tree, too! Johnny clenched both fists at the thought.
When the young boy finally left the garden shed, it was early afternoon. The wind had died down, and some of the grey clouds had cleared out, but the sun was still hidden behind the clouds that were left. By then, the heavy stone in his heart had subsided into a dull ache. As Johnny slowly plodded toward the prefab, he stopped to look at the detached aluminium prefab next to their own. David Pitman's family had moved away three years before, when Johnny had been eight; the year before, when Johnny had been ten, an elderly couple had moved into that prefab. Johnny and his parents had never really got to know them, because they pretty much kept to themselves. At times like this, he really missed David.
Shrugging, he turned toward the prefab. 
And
 With a sigh, he shook his head. 
 David's marks at school had always been average, so in all likelihood, he would be attending one of the comprehensive schools—Boswell or Moulsham, perhaps—if he and his family were still living on that street. 
 Johnny thought. 
With a sigh, the young boy entered the darkened, quiet kitchen and shuffled into the equally darkened lounge; he paused at the kitchen entrance to turn around and look at the cupboard door. 
I
 Shaking his head, he dragged himself out of the lounge and down the hall into the small bedroom that he used to share with Harry, until Daddy had kicked her out the summer before last. Biting his lower lip, Johnny removed his jacket and dropped it on the bare wooden floor, took his shoes and socks off and dropped them on the floor, flopped sideways onto his single bed, and turned onto his back. Tears welled up in his eyes again, and he reached towards his face with his left hand to wipe them off before they had a real chance to trickle down his cheeks again.
my
 he thought. 
 He bit his lower lip and sighed. 
Pouting, he swung his legs over the side of his bed and rose to his feet. The wooden floor felt cold and dirty to his bare feet, but he didn't bother putting his slippers on before he left the room. Bending over to pick up his jacket, he opened the closet door and hung it back inside, and then stood there for a moment, gazing at the small number of faded, threadbare clothes that hung in that closet. 
 he thought. 
With a shrug, he picked up his shoes and socks, dropped his shoes inside the closet, and swung the door shut. Trudging barefooted out his bedroom door and down the hall towards the lounge and into the kitchen, he dumped his socks in the laundry bag by the washer and searched the trash bin near the washer, to see if he could come up with any ideas for a gift he could make quickly.
As Johnny rummaged through the trash, his hand landed on what felt like an egg carton. Grabbing hold of it, he pulled it to the surface of the discarded trash and lifted it out of the bag. 
 he thought. 
 He laid the white Styrofoam container on the counter.
Searching the kitchen drawers, Johnny found his mother's pair of scissors in one of them. As soon as he removed them and closed the drawer, he picked up the egg carton and carried it and the scissors to his room, laying them on the old wooden dresser's hard, unyielding surface. He gazed down at the stuff he'd gathered together.
 He frowned. 
have
Mummy never bought straws, he knew, but sometimes, Mrs. Templeton took him out to get ice cream and a fizzy drink. She used to take Harry out as well, when Harry had still lived there. In addition, sometimes Johnny's Boy Scout troop stopped to get something to eat when out doing something; he always got a fizzy drink at those times, too. The fizzy drinks always had plastic straws to go with the Styrofoam containers they were served in. The last time his troop had gone on a trip had been less than a month before, and so it was too late to find any straws he might have had then, but Mrs. Templeton had taken him out for a fizzy drink and an ice cream cone less than a week ago. Maybe the plastic straw was still in the trash bin.
Darting back to the kitchen, Johnny searched the bin again, laying items on the floor as he came across them. Finally, to his relief, he found the straw. Thankfully, it wasn't bent or mangled; he had thrown it away without wadding it as soon as he had finished his drink. Of course, it helped that the straw was made of plastic. Grabbing hold of it, he drew the smooth plastic straw out of the trash bin and laid it on the counter, and then he picked up the rest of the stuff he'd dumped on the floor and tossed it back into the bin.
Back in his room, he placed the rest of the things he'd gathered on the dresser and got started on his project. Slowly and carefully, just as his teachers at school had taught him, he cut four containers out of the carton, making sure that they all remained fastened together; when he was done, he just as carefully trimmed the rims of each container. At last, he took a good look at them. Good. All four containers were round. Together, they made a nice flower shape. The scissors clattered when he dropped them on the surface of the dresser. 
Opening the lid of his watercolour container, Johnny removed the brush, only to frown. 
 He shook his head. 
 Shaking his head, he left his room and went to the bathroom to get the small plastic glass Mummy kept in there and fill it with cold water out of the tap
Once he had done so, he took it back to his bedroom. Then, realizing that he'd also forgotten something else, he rushed back to the kitchen to get a couple of paper towels and his mummy's bottle of glue. He would need the glue to stick the top of the straw to the back of the containers, and the paper towels to keep the paint and glue off the dresser while he was making the flower.
 the young boy thought, as he set the glass on the dresser and spread the paper towels on the dresser, one paper towel on top of the other. 
 With a shrug, he set the containers and straw on the paper towels, so the top of the dresser wouldn't get stained with glue and paint, as his art teachers had taught him at school.
Dipping his brush into the water with his left hand, Johnny then pressed it against the dry pink paint for starters, after which he rubbed the brush all over the top left-hand container's inside. The pink spread over the inside of the container as Johnny moved his brush over it; in the process, some of the drops of paint landed on the paper towels. When the container's entire inside was pink, Johnny swirled the brush around inside the water and shook it from side to side, and then he took it out of the water and pressed it against the dry blue paint. He started to paint the inside of the lower left-hand container blue. When Johnny had finished, he did the same thing with the now-wet pink paint again, and then he painted the lower right-hand container's inside pink. After that, he painted the inside of the upper right-hand container blue. Last, he also made sure to paint their top rims the same colours as well. Once finished, he painted the side of the straw that was facing up green.
As soon as Johnny had shaken the paint off the brush in the water for the last time, he smiled as he gazed down at the containers' insides and rims. 
 He looked out the window. The sun had finally come out; its rays were pouring in through the window and lighting up the room. 
A horrible thought came to him, and he froze. What if Daddy came home while he was making Mummy's gift? What if he was drunk? He'd destroy the flower Johnny was making for Mummy! 
Please
A sudden growl in his stomach reminded him that he'd had nothing to eat that day; they hadn't yet had their breakfast when they had assembled in the lounge to open their gifts. So, he took the glass he'd been using and plodded towards the kitchen, where he emptied the now-messy water down the sink. Frowning at the bits of paint smudged on his left hand, he went to the bathroom and washed the paint off with lukewarm tap water, and then he rubbed his hand against the side of his faded, threadbare blue jean's left leg, to dry it. A few minutes later, in the kitchen, he opened a package of bread, removed a slice, and ate it. He also got himself a plastic glass of cold water, wiping his mouth dry with the back of his left hand as he left the kitchen. He didn't really feel like eating or drinking anything else at present. Returning to his bedroom, he took his Action Man out of the top drawer and began playing war with an imaginary enemy.
A couple of hours after he had painted the Styrofoam containers' insides and their rims, he checked to see if they were dry yet by gently touching them. They were; there was no paint on his index finger when he removed it. So, he turned them over and returned to the kitchen to fill the glass with water again and take it back to his bedroom. He opened his container of watercolours again, dipped his brush into the cold water, and started painting the bottoms of the containers, making sure that the colours' bottoms matched the colours of their insides. Once he was finished, he turned the straw over and painted its other side green, as well as its edges. Since it was a smooth, round plastic straw, it had no real edges, of course, but Johnny didn't know what else to call them.
 he thought, and cleared his throat. 
 He grimaced. 
Another few hours passed as Johnny waited for the paint to dry again. He spent part of that time making a bologna sandwich for Mummy to eat when she came out of the cupboard; once, while he was preparing her food, he ate another slice of bread and drank some more cold water out of the tap. Then he got the laundry started in the kitchen corner by the outside door. As soon as he had begun that job, he returned to his room to check on the containers and the straw. Touching each, he smiled. 
Opening the bottle of glue, he squirted a dab of the thick, white, sticky liquid onto one end of the now-green straw, and then he carefully attached that end to the place in the back, where the containers joined in the middle, and pressed it against the middle surface. That done, he frowned. Now he needed to make sure that the new flower lay flat, so the straw wouldn't come loose while the glue was drying! But what could he use to lay it on?
As Johnny quickly scanned the room, his eyes landed on his small collection of books. Some of them were narrow enough that they could do the trick. Switching the container to his right hand, he approached the shelf where he kept his books; picking one up with his left, he laid the book on its side on another shelf by itself and laid his new egg-carton flower down on it, with the petals down directly on the shelf's smooth surface, and with the other end of the straw resting on the book itself. The straw stayed put; it didn't come loose. He smiled. Good. Laying the flower there would do the job.
Carefully picking up the book and the egg-carton flower with both hands, the young boy carried them to the dresser and laid the book on it, and then he carefully laid the new flower on the dresser in the same way that he had laid it on the shelf. He then pressed his left index finger against the tip of the straw that he had glued to the new flower, to make sure that it would stay put and not come loose from the flower. Now all that remained was to wait for the glue to dry, and to put everything away that he'd used to make the flower. He put his watercolours away, threw what was left of the egg carton back in the kitchen trash bin, and put away the glue. In the bathroom, he emptied the glass, rinsed it out, and put it in the drainer. Turning around and leaning against it, he made a face. 
For the next few hours, after Johnny had put his shoes and jacket back on, he removed the now-clean laundry from the washer, took it outside in the clothes basket, and hung it outside on the clothesline in the back garden. Back inside, once he had taken off his shoes and jacket once more, he put Mummy's sandwich in the refrigerator and then spent some time getting supper started for himself and Mummy by preparing the ingredients for macaroni and cheese, and then picking things up off the messy floor in the lounge and kitchen. He would begin cooking the macaroni and cheese when the flower was ready to give to Mummy. At one point, he turned on the telly, sank down onto the sofa, and watched the programme that was airing at that time. Finally, after he had unfastened the dry clothes from the clothes pegs on the clothesline and taken them back inside, he folded some of them and hung the rest, and then he put them all away.
Once that was done, Johnny returned to his room and checked the egg-carton flower again. Picking it up by the straw with his left hand, he shook the straw, but the egg-carton petals did not come off the straw. A broad smile spread across his face. "All 
!" he cried out. Now all that remained was to wrap it, and then as soon as Mummy came out of the cupboard, he could give it to her and cheer her up! Provided that Daddy didn't come home first, that is! At least, Johnny knew where Mummy kept the Christmas wrappings, so he wouldn't have to ask her first. Good thing, too, since the flower was supposed to be a surprise!
Darting into his parents' bedroom, Johnny dropped the flower on their double bed and got down on his hands and knees on the cold, dirty, bare wooden floor to dig the box of Christmas wrappings and decorations out from underneath the bed. After he had taken everything into his room, the young boy searched the prefab for a small, empty box to put the flower in. Finding a suitable box at the back of the counter in a corner of the kitchen, he took it to his room and dropped the flower in it. Then he wrapped the box in Christmas wrapping paper and pinned a shiny, bright-red bow to it. Digging a Christmas label out of the small container in which Mummy kept the gift labels, Johnny wrote in cursive the word, 
 next to the word, 
 and his own first name next to 
. Then he removed the Scotch tape from the bag that Mummy stored the Christmas wrappings in and taped the label underneath the bow.
He gazed down at the gaily wrapped box as he held it in both hands and smiled in satisfaction. 
 He frowned. It could easily be days from then before Mummy ever came out! 
 He shrugged. It couldn't hurt. First, though, he had to put the wrappings back under Mummy and Daddy's bed.
After Johnny had done so, he took the wrapped box to the kitchen and laid it on the table's smooth, clean surface. Approaching the cupboard door, he cleared his throat as he positioned himself in front of it. "Mummy?" he called out. "Merry Christmas, Mummy! I got a present for you."
No answer.
Biting his lower lip, Johnny glanced at the stove. It was almost time to start cooking the macaroni and cheese, and there was always the chance that Daddy would come back before he could give his mummy the gift. He cleared his throat again and turned back towards the door to the walk-in cupboard. Would Mummy even listen? Would she come out at all, if he begged her to? He could only hope.
"Please, Mummy?! Please won't you come out 
?! It's a Christmas present, and I want to give it to you before Christmas is over! If Daddy comes home first, he'll destroy it! Please let me give it to you before Daddy comes back." He paused. "Please, Mummy?"
To his relief, he heard some shuffling in the cupboard; a moment later, he could hear the sound of the cupboard door being unlocked from the inside. Shortly, the door itself creaked open, and Mummy, whose blond hair was dishevelled, and who looked weary and sad, stood in the doorway.
"I got you a gift," Johnny said softly. "It's on the table. I made it myself." He bit his lower lip. "It's probably not as nice as the gifts you made. Sorry about that, Mummy. But it's 
 gift."
With a weak smile, Mummy closed the cupboard door behind her. "I'm sure I'll like it, Johnny. It was good of you to make me a Christmas gift." She glanced at the ingredients that Johnny had prepared on the counter. "I see you've started supper."
Johnny nodded. "I washed the clothes, too. And picked stuff off the floor. Haven't started boiling the water for the macaroni yet, though."
Smiling her thanks, Mummy's shoes clicked on the bare wooden floor as she approached the kitchen table. Picking up the box, she began to tear off the wrapping as Johnny stood next to her, watching. As soon as the box lay uncovered in her hands, she opened it. She gave her son a pleased, proud smile. "It's a lovely flower, Johnny! Thank you!" She hugged him with her left hand as she held the flower with her right, and relief flooded the child's heart.
Turning her attention back to the flower, Mummy smiled at it. "I'll have to find something to stand it in. It'll make a lovely decoration for the kitchen." It took her a few minutes, but she found a cheap vase that Johnny remembered her buying at Poundstretcher sometime back and placed the flower in it. Then she stood it on the counter.
With a sigh, she turned towards the stove. "Well, Johnny, let's get supper finished, shall we? You set the table, son, while I get started cooking the macaroni and cheese. Since you prepared the supper ingredients and did the laundry for me, I'll wash the dishes afterwards."
"I made you a sandwich, too," Johnny added. "It's in the fridge."
Mummy nodded. "It's too late to eat it today, so I'll save it for tomorrow. I'd better wrap it in a sandwich bag as soon as I have time, so it'll stay fresh. Right now, son, we've got supper to finish, so let's get to it."
With a nod, Johnny approached the cabinet where they stored their dishes. 
 Taking hold of two plastic dishes with his left hand, he removed them from the cabinet and carried them to the table.
