Sherlock takes a deep breath and bites his lip as he enters Bart's Pathology lab with a dozen red roses. He politely knocks on Molly's office door instead of barging in.
He can see Molly is busy signing autopsy paperwork, but she mumbles "come in". Sherlock walks in a bit hesitantly, a rare shy look on his face, hiding the roses behind his back.
Molly glances up from her mountain of paperwork wearily and her eyes light up a bit at his presence. "Sherlock, hi. What's up? I hope not a case, because I'm really swamped today, as you can see."
He nods gently and bows his head hesitantly, revealing the roses from behind his back. Molly's eyes widen in surprise. "Flowers?"
"Good deduction...care to elaborate?"
Molly snorts and stands up, swatting his shoulder, taking them gently, and smelling them. "They're divine, but...I thought we agreed that flowers die too fast? I believe you said they were a pointless gift."
"Well...they look good for a while, and they make most women happy so..."
"I see. So that's what this was? You wanted to cheer me up?"
"Among other things."
Molly raises her eyebrow. "Well go on then."
"Right...uh...Molly. /Darling/...", he cringes slightly, and she smirks at his obvious uncomfortableness but unwavering effort. It had only been a month since they had started dating and it had been a work in progress, but they work well together, both of them being a bit odd and all. A well-oiled machine is how John and Greg described them.
"Would you like to have dinner with me tonight?"
Molly grins and then begins to giggle. "Dinner? Really? Wait, as in take-out again?"
"No, I- I mean...a nice dinner. At a nice restaurant. In...nice clothing. You and me. Tonight. What do you say?"
"Well, I say yes, of course. But...I'm just a bit confused."
"Confused? Why? I love you; you love me, we are...together. What's so baffling about dinner?"
"Well, you hate fancy restaurants and large crowds. Especially now that people recognize you."
"Yes, but this isn't about me, it's about you. You deserve the best, Molly Hooper. I realized today that while I may be sufficient in my duties as your...Sherlock...mediocrity isn't excellence. I like being the best at things that I do. That's why I created my own career from the ground. And Molly, you are...very important to me. I shouldn't be mediocre or lackadaisical when it comes to our relationship.
Molly smiles and tears up slightly, moving onto her tiptoes to wrap her arms around his neck, then places a soft kiss on his lips. "I can assure you that we are on good terms. I hope I haven't given you a reason to worry. Is that what this is about?"
Sherlock blushes a bit and looks into her eyes. "No. I just…I want the best for you."
"You are the best for me."
"Am I though?"
"Sherlock", Molly looks back into his eyes, a bit shocked at him for feeling insecure. "You know I only want you. We work well together. We don't judge each other's oddities. We're actually more similar than we imagined, hm?", she muses, gently tousling his curls with her fingers; one of the many pleasures she has, being his girlfriend.
He nods and dips his head, placing his forehead on hers. "I've just overheard so many people recently...even in passing."
"Who? Saying what?"
"Doesn't matter who. But they make good points that you deserve a man who is so much better in character than I am...and I suppose I'm beginning to see that and believe it. We've been dating for a month and already I feel like I'm letting you down by going so slowly. For needing time for things. And for being...whatever it is that I am."
Molly sniffs and cups his face. "Well, that is just untrue, alright? You get those thoughts out of that big, beautiful mind of yours. You're mine and I am yours, and that's the way it's supposed to be. Believe me. Plus, how many times have you given me the same pep talk when I have bad days and aren't at my most confident? I take your word because I trust you. So please, trust me."
"I do. I do trust you; I always have, you know that."
"Then say you believe that you are perfect just the way you are."
"Molly-"
"No, Sherlock. No buts."
They stare into each other's eyes for a few moments, and he sighs. "Alright. I believe you. I still want to be better though."
"Fine. But better doesn't mean changing who you are. Now, what was with the flowers and the fancy dinner date idea? We both know that wasn't on a whim, and they're things you always despised."
"I...I asked John and Lestrade how to be a normal...boyfriend. They said flowers, nice dinners, candles, and to cut back on being so rigid and 'detectivey' all the time. To fuss over you more."
Molly smiles sadly and takes his hands. "I don't want any of that. I quite love the gifts you've given me. The anatomical heart necklace, the skull print socks, the new scalpel. I enjoy the gifts that /you/ choose for me when you think of me. They're perfect. I don't need flowers or fancy dinners. The only candles I enjoy are when I take a bath, and about you being rigid and analytical, I love that about you. That's one of the things that makes you the man I love. You don't need to fuss over me, you're there when I need you, that's what matters. So I don't want you to be normal. I adore that you are extraordinary."
Sherlock clears his throat and blushes, flattered.
"Would you want me to change? To be less morbid, less scientific, and just be a normal, materialistic, clingy woman?"
Sherlock's eyes widen. "Absolutely not, that would be horrific."
Chuckling, she squeezes his hands. "Then don't you change, either. I enjoy who you are. You know why? Because I know that at the end of the day, after all of the cases and the thinking, and after all the autopsies and the crime, it's just you and me. Together. I know your heart, Sherlock, and I know it will be there for me when everything calms. Just like you know my heart and attention will be there for you then as well. We have our own routine, it works for us, and that is perfect enough for me if it's perfect enough for you."
Sherlock grins and kisses her soundly. Molly eagerly kisses back before pulling away. "It is perfect enough for me."
"Good. So, no fancy dinner", she smirks.
"Mmmmmm….no", he chuckles, poking her nose.
Molly laughs and nods. "Fish and chips tonight then, at my place?"
"Sounds lovely, I'll be there."
"You'd better."
"Wouldn't miss it, /darling/", he smirks and winks, sauntering out of the room, Belstaff fluttering after him the way Molly secretly loves.
She grins and shakes her head amusingly, picking up the roses and putting them in a large unused pencil holder. She gazes at them sweetly for a second before sighing deeply and becoming entranced in her paperwork once again.
