"He's got this dream about buying some land,
He's gonna give up the booze and the one-night stands
And then he'll settle down in some quiet little town
And forget about everything."
- 'Baker Street' (Gerry Rafferty)
There's a dead-point in time. We always see time as continuous, unrelenting, unstoppable, but there is one time in the still of night where, just for a few moments, the earth stops turning, and silence envelopes the panic-craving mind: convinces us to stop, for just a few seconds, just to breathe... Discomfort is just a shiver of the mind, and in that quiet zone we are toasted by an open fire, relaxation licking into the dark crevices of thought, clearing the shadows for a brief instant before night closes in again. The dead-point of time is the birth of peace. Those silken moments are golden, and bright-blue-eyed – at least in 221B.
His brain was always running like a well-stoked engine, burning through ideas and designs with a feverish desire for intelligence. To him the idea of rest was ridiculous. How could one get anything done? What productivity is there in doing nothing? Frankly, none. And if there was no purpose in doing it then it wasn't going to get done, as simple as that. The irony was that in his busyness he sat still as a minion of the Ice Queen, rigid and frozen in thought, his skin cold with inactivity, his eyes glazed over. Time and time again his flatmate would be tempted to check his pulse, but every time he got close he seemed to thaw, if only for a moment, if only just to scare the life out of his friend.
Mostly John would walk past him, carry about his daily business as if he was alone. He always felt the loneliness stronger when the man wouldn't even look at him but he had given up trying to get his attention: the more he tried the more desperate he became, until he felt like a child tugging on his sleeve. He didn't need to need him. But the longer he waited around the more impatient he felt, and so John would take himself out of an evening and hope his thoughts on the thoughts of Sherlock Holmes would dissipate with indulgence.
Sherlock always flinched at the slam of the door.
Sometimes he'd go to the window but John only very rarely looked back and seemed to mistake him for a ghost every time and ignore his tall slender figure leaning against the alcove. Maybe all the nightmares had left him accustomed to the silhouettes. He would have thought he'd be accustomed to the guilt by now yet he tried not to let it trouble him – he had bigger things to think about, and as far as he was concerned, he had done all he could. There was no gesture he could offer the man now and no favour or promise he could offer him besides his never leaving again.
It was raining that night, a thin sleet attempting to snow over London and instead just slowly drowning it. Sherlock stood in the window, twiddling his thumbs and staring blindly into the streaks on the glass. Little did he know that across town John was also blankly gazing into a glass and the drips of thick alcohol that clung to the rim, but his thoughts were shattered rather than crystallised. Since Mary's death, he had been a broken man, always warring with notions that she, like Sherlock, could come back. But he knew no one was like Sherlock. He debated night after night whether that was ever going to be a good thing. These days the barman was more his friend than Sherlock – always distant, always tackling "real" problems, rather than the invisible frets of the mind. God knew that John wanted him to solve his problems for him this time, but time and again he concluded that there was no solution. Again and again his solution was to drown out the pain and sleep off the sorrow. He had lost his job after turning up drunk on several occasions. He would return home and want to blame Sherlock but knew that it wasn't his fault. Collapse into lethargy and shame.
He wasn't the man he once was. He was an empty shell of that man, always aiming for those quiet moments that always slipped through his fingers and settled at the bottom of his glass. He was enraptured by lost time, never able to hold onto more.
That night, the man he was seemed never to have existed.
"Sherlock!"
An unfamiliar sense of fear settled within his chest as he glanced over to the stairs. John stumbled up into view, his eyes bleary and his posture crippled. He reeked of alcohol and vomit, his shirt stained with sweat and spills, and his mood seemed to seep from him skin.
"Sherlock!" he belched again, slamming one hand down on the stair railings and using it to drag himself to his feet. "Where are you?"
He clenched his jaw for a moment, knowing it would have meant less hassle on his part if he were not to answer, but instead hide his face from this drunk man. But he knew this man was also John, and so with a sigh he answered, "On the sofa."
As he stumbled in a glob of saliva flowed over his lip and he laughed without humour. Sherlock's gaze fluttered with shame. "So, y'know, I was thinking," John yammered, wiping his mouth and trying to figure out how knees work. "This... none of it... without you. Sherlock Holmes, who- who dragged me into this... hell! And you're not... not even sorry..."
"Why should I be sorry for what you have done?" Sherlock commented without a hint of regret, turning away from his "serious issues". John watched him with bubbling inebriated loathing.
"Because you're the one who made me do it all!" he answered, stabilising himself on the arm of the sofa, his breath reaching out for his flatmate and attempting a choke-hold. He toppled over the side and fell into the cushion next to Sherlock, while he looked over in thinly veiled disgust and poorly hidden pity. "If it wasn't for you and your... face... I wouldn't be in this mess. You wouldn't have jumped off a building, Mary wouldn't have... I-I could have done so much more."
"Like what?" Sherlock scoffed, deeming this conversation irrelevant. What is the point in wishing to change the past? All we have is the present and the future, still malleable to our actions. John was obviously ignoring them both and it saddened the detective to see him being so painfully dull. "Without me you would still be limping everywhere, is that what you want?"
"Yes! That's... Um... No." John wriggled round on the sofa and stared up at the ceiling; his arms flopped all over the place, one hand reaching up the back cushion, the other dangling over the edge. Sherlock noted his position and shifted his own away from him slightly. After a while he sighed heavily and uttered, "I don't know what I want."
With a grumble Sherlock closed the chapter of his thoughts and resumed their "talk". "I never understood why people think they need to want something: the terms themselves are mutually exclusive. You don't need something you want, and most are busy squirming and causing drama to want something they need."
John wound his head round to look at him, nodding as though it all made sense now. Then he frowned. "What do I need, then?" he asked.
Sherlock looked down at him, and all the ranting flooded from his veins. He seemed so innocent, just a child fearful for the future... so simple, yet so lost. He knew what he needed above all was a friend, but knew that could never be him. But he wanted to try. And so he smiled gently, lightly lifted himself to his feet and strode gallantly across to the coat rack. "Some rest," he instructed. "And less alcohol."
John snorted and writhed again. "Eh, maybe you're right... You're always right though, aren't you... The great Sherlock Holmes..."
By the time he returned, John was splayed across the whole sofa, drooling and half-passed-out. He scoffed a laugh, and draped his long black coat over the drunken man, who snuggled into it as though it represented all of his good memories, head lolling and mind swirled with drink. And as Sherlock watched him, his heart swelled with some deep need to look after him and nurse him back to health – whatever that implied.
