Rosie Watson wanted cake, she wanted cake right now. Unfortunately, her dear, dear father had deemed that she was not allowed cake before dinner. Which is how she found herself in her current predicament. Stood atop her uncle's kitchen cabinet, unable to get down.
You might be wondering how she had gotten herself into such a predicament, well the answer was quite simple really. Her uncle had cake sat atop the tallest shelf and she wanted it. How she was going to get down however hadn't quite entered her head and now she was stuck. She had surmised that she was probably going to die on her uncles' cabinets, that was how her seven years of life was going to end. Still, at least it wasn't a horrible death, death by cake seemed a sufficient enough way to go.
She was disturbed by her musings by a pair of strong arms pulling her from her hiding spot. A pair of arms that belonged to her favourite uncle.
"Uh..." she started. Sherlock stopped her with a look
"Cake before dinner?" he asked, although he already knew, she nodded mutely. Sherlock sighed
"Rosie, you know you shouldn't be in my kitchen. I have many dangerous things that can hurt you." He gently chastised her. Rosie hung her head, that indeed was a rule in her uncle's home. She was not, under any circumstances allowed in the kitchen. It was, Afterall where he stored most of his unsavoury experiments.
Rosie hung her head; she didn't want to disappoint him.
"I'll tell you what mini-Watson, you promise to stay out of the kitchen and I promise to smuggle you some cake," he said. Rosie's eyes lit up
"Yes... I mean, I promise" she exclaimed. Sherlock chuckled softly before cutting her a slice of cake. He handed it to her and grabbed himself a slice, together they eat the cake in silence. Rosie smiled at him, for all his bravado about being without emotions, she knew. She knew that no matter how silly she was he would always be there for her.
Rosie was nervous, she knew that she would probably be okay but it was still nerve-wracking. Still, the first day of high school was a nervous thing and one she felt utterly unprepared for. Her father, bless him, had tried to prepare her and tell her it would be okay. Still, Rosie felt overwhelmed. Nearly all her friends had mothers to help them through their first days, Molly was the closest she got to a mother. The woman had been the best motherly influence but she still wasn't her mum. Her mum was dead, gone. Rosie shook the thought from her head and headed inside.
The day was going surprisingly okay, she'd made a couple of friends and had met a few friends from her primary school. So, all in all, an okay day. That was until her last lesson when the dreaded question was asked. Who's in your family. It should be a simple question really; she wasn't ashamed of her family. Not in the slightest but it was hard to explain. Sure, she had her father, that was normal and her auntie Harry. She had her godmother, the sweetest person on earth and Granny Hudson but how on earth would she explain the Holmes. There were Mummy and Daddy Holmes or as she called them, grandma and grandpa. They were the closest things to parents her father had at the moment. Then there was Mycroft who to be quite frank was the biggest softie she had ever met. Yet how do you explain he is the British government?. Then last but not least there was her uncle Sherlock who was basically a celebrity. Who was a pirate, detective and fairy all in one? He claimed to be unfeeling but was the goofiest and most loving man she knew.
So, as she stood at the front of the class, she tried to articulate what she thought, then, just as she was about to speak an alarm ran. The fire alarm. Quickly they were ushered out of the room.
Once outside she felt her phone buzz
She smirked as she read the previous message.
As Rosie looked around, she realised her uncle would do anything to help her out and that was the definition of family.
Rosie very rarely brought boys to meet her father, it wasn't because she was scared of her father. No, it was because her family could be very overwhelming. She had her father, who, although being usually very calm was an ex-army doctor. He was also fiercely protective over his daughter. Then she had her godmother who literally worked with dead bodies, the woman could literally commit murder and get away with it. Alongside this, she had Granny Hudson and Uncle Greg, one who could accidentally commit murder and the other who could help her cover it up. Then she had her uncle Sherlock who could scare anyone away.
So, no Rosie had never brought a boyfriend home before, that was until she met Connor. He was perfect, he made her feel like a princess. He never once pressured her and completely respected her boundaries.
Once she had introduced him to her father, she felt somewhat better. Her dad had given him the seal of approval, which was all she needed. Yet he pulled her aside when Connor had gone to the toilet.
"You know Uncle Sherlock will want to meet him, right?" he asked. Rosie smiled shyly
"Yes, I'm hoping he'll be somewhat cordial"
"Yeah" her father sighed "Me too."
As it turned out she needn't have worried for a week later she was sat across from her uncle sherlock with Connor. They talked about random things and when Connor had to leave Rosie felt sure that he would approve.
That was until she was tidying away the plates for her uncle spoke one word
"No," he said. Rosie turned around to face her uncle, confused.
"I'm sorry, what?" she asked. Sherlock's face turned solemn
"No, you may not date him, I do not approve," he said. Rosie felt her heart drop, she was so sure Connor would get along with Sherlock, they were both highly intelligent.
"What... Why not?" she asked. Sherlock stared at his hand
"He is simply not good enough"
"Says who?"
"Mw" Rosie felt anger flood her body. Just who did he think he was? She was more than capable of deciding who was good for her.
"How is he not good enough?" she asked. Sherlock looked up
"He is obviously not in your League, intelligence wise, Tabacco ash on his fingers suggests he Is a smoker. Mycroft has just messaged me to say he was caught in the procession of marijuana. Do you want to date a drug addict Rosie? I can assure you it will not end well." Rosie stopped short, trying to process what she had been told, she gripped onto the cabinet edge.
"You ran a police check on him?" she seethed. Sherlock, stared at her startled. Rosie was never angry with him before he could answer however she stopped him.
"You know what? Forget it. I am sixteen years old Uncle Sherlock. I am not a little girl; I can look after myself." She tried to calm down, she didn't really know why she was so angry. Her uncle usually was an arse but never to her, he never deduced her.
"I am just looking out for you, like your mother-"
"You see that's the problem, you look at me and see her! You couldn't protect her so you have to protect me, right?" she nearly faltered as his face fell. She knew what her mother's death had done to him; he never hid it.
"You want to protect me; no, you want me to be her. No offence Uncle Sherlock but who are you talk about drugs? Your arms are littered with needle marks" at his stunned face she scoffed.
"You didn't think I'd notice? You didn't think that it was some big secret, did you? No, as for intelligence the only one who thinks I'm a genius is you. I'm normal and that kills you, doesn't it? Well, I'm sorry but I love Connor, if you don't support it that's fine but to sit there and say that I don't know what's good for me is ludicrous so fuck you, Uncle Sherlock, fuck you!" then she turned on her heel and marched out of the room, slamming the door behind her, feeling her heartbreak.
Things had changed since the argument; Rosie had seen less and less of her favourite uncle. A change that didn't go unnoticed by her father who had tried to find out why she was ignoring Sherlock. She refused to answer his request however and went about her days. She knew she was being overdramatic but her uncle was an arse and he needed to learn a lesson in humility.
She had better things to do however as she was getting ready for her date. She had been so excited however as soon as she got to their date, she knew it was going to go downhill. Connor was high, he had dragged her into an abandoned alley and began kissing her. She stilled for a moment, confused before she regained her senses. She tried pushing him off but he held a tight grip
"Connor stop!" she shouted. He ignored her, choosing to try and unbutton her blouse as he greedily kissed her. She pushed him back only for him to slap her
"What the fuck was that for?" he yelled. She whimpered
"Connor, stop I don't this." Connor had laughed
"What do you mean? Of course, you want this! You've been giving me all the signs; hell look at what you're wearing" he yelled. She looked down, all she was wearing were jeans and a blouse, not revealing in the slightest. Connor took advantage of her momentary distraction and began kissing her again, managing to rip open her buttons on her top and throw it to the side. She cried out as he unhooked her bra. She tried to resist as he began unbuttoning her jeans. Then just as she thought she was about to be fully open the pressure he exerted was suddenly lifted.
She turned to Connor to find a man atop him, pinning him to the floor, then just as she was about panic, even more, she felt something heavy and warm elope her. She grasped the fabric to find it smelling similar to her uncle's coat. She looked up to find a most welcome figure. Sherlock Holmes.
"Come now Rosie" he prodded gently, she let herself be pushed away from the scene and into a taxi. She leaned into her uncle as he guided her out of the taxi into 221B Baker Street, then as he set her gently down on the couch, she let herself break. Knowing that with her uncle everything would eventually get better,
Rosie wasn't sure how she managed to get through the weeks that followed. She barely remembered any of it, she remembered feeling scared the next day as Lestrade took her version of events. He told her she was safe that they had already caught him and he was in holding. That did nothing to relieve her worries. He had still touched her, violated her and she didn't think she would ever be safe again.
She remembered her father bringing her clothes to Baker Street and wrapping her into his arms, promising her it would all be okay. Rosie wanted to believe him but she didn't think anything would be okay again.
She remembered her grandparents feeding her, trying to use food to help her cope, she also remembered Mycroft being suspiciously there too.
She remembered her Aunt Molly holding her hand as she had a shower for the first time in days, too scared to be naked. She remembers everyone being there when she would wake up screaming or would need to just leave.
What she didn't remember however was her uncle Sherlock, when she asked for him, everyone gave her a sad smile and said that he was working. She wanted too angry but truthfully, she couldn't. Hadn't she told him to fuck off? She guessed he took the saying to heart.
It wasn't until after Connors trial that she saw him again, she found him stood outside the courthouse. She stared at him before following in
"Rosie, where are you going?" her father asked. She looked up at him
"I need to ask Uncle Sherlock a few things" John hesitated before eventually letting her go.
She followed her uncle into the park and sat next to him on the bench.
"I'm sorry," he said sincerely. Rosie looked up in shock, she'd never heard her uncle apologise before.
"What for?" she asked. Sherlock hung his head
"I should have been there for you... I..I just-"
"Uncle Sherlock, you found me, you stopped him" she protested. Sherlock smiled wryly
"Actually, that was Wiggins," he said. Rosie scoffed, of course, he used his homeless network.
"I take it that's how you found us?" she asked. Sherlock nodded
"I just had a feeling something was wrong... so asked Wiggins to keep an eye on you. He phoned me when you were pulled into the alley. I'm sorry Rosie, I should have been there sooner."
"No, you were there fast enough but why weren't you there after?" she asked. Sherlock gulped, a nervous look in his features.
"I was scared... that you would hate me. I'm not the most mature person in your life Rosie and I was scared I would do more harm than good" Rosie mulled over her next words, unsure of how to respond. Sherlock coughed lightly and Rosie was suddenly reminded of how cold it actually was.
"It's okay uncle, Sherlock, in the end, you helped me more than I thought you could even when I had yelled at you. You... You were the only adult that saw through Connor and you tried to warn me. I just didn't want to listen." She stared at the frost-bitten floor, not sure of what to do next. Sherlock however pulled a crumpled paper bag and handed it to her.
"In that case Mini Watson, whilst I know we have some things to work through would you like to share a cake with your old uncle" Rosie laughed, it looked like the cake she had stolen from his cupboard all those years ago
"Only if you share it with your favourite Neice." He smiled and herded her a slice of the cherry cake.
As she munched on its Rosie was met with a startling revelation. Her uncle may not be her family via blood but he was there when it counted and for her, that was enough.
