Harry sat sprawled on the sofa, one foot on the dirty floor and the other on the sofa by the armrest (because her other leg was folded upward), reading a children's novel that she had checked out of the school library the week before. It was Monday morning of the last week of May, and since the Spring Bank holiday had begun when the first of the summer half-terms had ended on Friday, she was planning to join Amy Pitman and some of her other school friends at Melbourne Park that afternoon; Mr. Pitman was going to drive them there. Fortunately, Harry had some money that she had earned from walking Mrs. Thompson's dog over the past few weeks; she could buy some lemonade from one of the vendors in that park.
The late-May sunshine poured in through the lounge window, forming a rectangle of reflected sunlight on the bare wooden floor. The lounge was quiet and still. Mummy was making breakfast in the kitchen, and Daddy had left for work earlier.
 Harry wondered, frowning; the page rustled when she turned it. Her little brother had still been asleep when she had got dressed and made her bed; it had since been over a half-hour since Harry had got up, and he had not left their shared bedroom yet. 
 Only the previous month, Johnny had celebrated his fifth birthday on the twenty-third.
Putting her novel on her lap, the 11-year-old girl leaned back to reflect. In just a few months, it would be summer break, and she would be finished with Year 6 and out of 
Kings Road Junior School for good. Johnny, on the other hand, was in the reception class at 
Kings Road Infant School, so it would be several more years before he was ready to attend secondary school
 she thought. 
Memories of the day when she had first learned that she might be admitted there filtered back into her mind…
At least my grades are good, so I know they're not gonna scold me about them.
not
am
not
can
are
grammar
much
If grammar schools require perfect behaviour, too, I'm out of luck!
Harry smiled wryly. Fortunately, her not-so-good behaviour had not disqualified her for grammar school; it might be because she had passed the 11+ exam with flying colours. In about another two-and-a-half months, she would be finished with primary school for good. Come early September, while Johnny would be walking without her to Kings Road Infant School with Amy's little brother, David, and Amy would be either walking or taking a minibus to one of the secondary schools with her other neighbourhood friends, Harry would be taking a minibus to CCHS. 
"Harry!" her mother called from the kitchen. "Go wake up your brother, would you? It's almost time for breakfast!"
"Yes, Mummy!" Putting her other foot on the dirty bare wooden floor and rising to her feet, Harry tossed the novel on the sofa and went to the small bedroom that she and Johnny shared in her bare feet, careful to dodge the crumpled beer cans that lay scattered on the floor. Her little brother still lay in a motionless lump underneath the covers on his single bed.
"Johnny." She shook his shoulder. "Mummy says, get up! It's almost time to eat."
"I don't feel good." Johnny's voice sounded weak and scratchy. "Can't eat. Hurts to swallow."
Harry herself swallowed hard. "I'll go get Mummy." She hurried out of the room and towards the kitchen. "Mummy!" she called out. "Johnny's sick."
Mummy set the plastic bowls she had just taken out of the cabinet on the counter and scratched her neck. "He is?" She frowned, and Harry nodded. Mummy hurried out of the kitchen, followed by Harry.
"Johnny?" Mummy asked softly a moment later, as she approached Johnny's bed. "What's the matter, sweetie?"
"I don't feel good. My throat hurts."
Perching on the edge of his bed, Mummy laid her hand on Johnny's forehead, and her forehead creased. "You're feeling pretty hot," she said. Turning to Harry, she said, "Go get the thermometer, Harry." Nodding, Harry darted out of the room and went to the bathroom to get the thermometer. As soon as she was back in the bedroom, she handed the thermometer to Mummy, who inserted it into Johnny's mouth.
"You've definitely got a fever," she announced a moment later, when she looked intently at the thermometer after she had removed it from the little boy's mouth. "You stay in bed, Johnny; Harry, stay with him. I'll ring Dr. Wilson." Dr. Wilson was the general practitioner who treated the family and gave the children their shots. Since Daddy had taken the car to work, since Johnny was too sick to take the bus, and since Mummy couldn't afford a taxi, she would have to ask Johnny's godmother, Mrs. Templeton, who lived directly across the street from the Watson prefab, to drive them to the doctor's office. She rose to her feet and hurried out of her children's bedroom while Harry remained by her little brother's side.
 Harry wondered. She'd had to have hers removed when she had been only six, a couple of months after Johnny had been born.
An hour later, Mummy, Johnny, Harry, and Mrs. Templeton sat on two soft, comfy cushioned sofas in Dr. Wilson's sunny waiting room, waiting to be called. On one sofa, a sluggish Johnny leaned limply against his mother's side, his eyes closed. On the other, Harry sat paging through an adult magazine she'd found on the coffee table; she hadn't found any children's magazines available in the waiting room, much to her disappointment. Mrs. Templeton sat on the sofa next to her, her hands in her lap.
The door next to the receptionist's cubicle swung open, and a nurse stepped out. "Johnny Watson," she called out.
Nodding, Mummy gently shook her little son's shoulder. Johnny opened his eyes and, standing up, trudged listlessly towards the door leading into the hall where the examination rooms were. Mummy, Harry, and Mrs. Templeton accompanied him back there.
"Come on, Johnny," the nurse said kindly. "I know you're feeling pretty sick right now, but this has to be done. It won't take long." She had him stand on the scale to weigh him and measure his height, and then she took him into one of the exam rooms, where they were followed by the others.
"I'll wait out in the waiting room," Mrs. Templeton told Mummy, who nodded. Mrs. Templeton left.
"Have a seat, Johnny." The nurse patted the top of a plastic chair's backrest, and Johnny sank down onto its seat. For the next few minutes, the nurse took his temperature, his pulse, and his blood pressure.
"All right, Johnny, all done." She smiled down at the woebegone boy. "Dr. Wilson will be in here shortly." She left the exam room, and Johnny sat slouched in that chair, looking miserable, and Mummy remained on her feet near her son, leaning against the wall. Harry kept fidgeting on the plastic chair she was slouching on.
Several minutes later, Dr. Wilson entered the exam room. "Hello, Johnny," he said kindly. "I hear you don't feel so well." Johnny shook his head. "Well, let's see what's wrong with you, so we can figure out what to do about it. First, though, let's get you up on this table, shall we?"
He led Johnny toward the examination table and lifted him up on it; the child lay down on his back. "Open your mouth for me, Johnny," he said. "Wide open, so I can see back there." Johnny did as he was told, and the doctor peered intently into his mouth and then nodded. "Just as I thought! Your tonsils are quite red and quite swollen. It's no wonder it hurts to swallow." Turning to Mummy, he added, "His temperature is 40 degrees
, so you did right to bring him in now. It's definitely his tonsils again."
Mummy shook her head. "This keeps happening over and over. It's been happening repeatedly ever since winter before last." Johnny had had his first bout with tonsillitis when he had been just four years old, while his mother had been in hospital.
"It certainly has been," Dr. Wilson agreed, inserting his hands into his white lab coat pockets, "and the time has come to remove them. I'll schedule their removal for tomorrow morning, at Broomfield Hospital." Mummy nodded.
Dr. Wilson turned to Johnny. "Your tonsils don't seem able to stay healthy anymore, Johnny; they keep making you sick over and over again. I'm going to have to remove them, so they won't make you sick anymore; you'll have to go to the hospital for that. You're going to have a sore throat for a few days after the surgery, but I'll prescribe you some medicine to make your throat more comfortable while it's mending, and you'll need to keep from talking for a time, so you won't risk your throat starting to bleed. Good news is you won't have to spend the night in hospital." He smiled. "You'll get to have lots of ice cream and cold fizzy drinks while you're getting well from the operation." Johnny smiled wanly.
"What time should we take him to Broomfield tomorrow?" asked Mummy, smoothing back her blonde hair.
"Take him to admissions at 8:00 tomorrow morning, and they'll check him in. He can't have anything to eat or drink after midnight tonight." Glancing down at the sick little boy, he added, "'Course, the way his throat's feeling, he's not going to feel like eating or drinking anything, anyway. Not with his sore tonsils." Mummy smiled ruefully, and Harry rolled her eyes. Johnny sure wasn't!
Back in the waiting room, Mummy told Mrs. Templeton what Dr. Wilson had told her. Mrs. Templeton nodded. "I had a feeling that was the problem. At least it's a day surgery, so you won't have to spend the night with him while he's recovering from the surgery." She smiled. "Tell you what, Jean. As soon as I drop you all off at home, I'll run to my daughter's shop and get some ice cream for Johnny, and for Harry, too. I'll get them some fizzy drinks and frozen juice bars, too, while I'm at it." Mummy smiled her thanks. Mrs. Templeton drove them home, and Mummy tucked Johnny back into bed as Harry watched.
"Do you need me to do anything?" Harry asked, as she and Mummy left the room.
"For now, just be quiet when you're in your room, because Johnny needs to rest. If I need your help, I'll tell you. When he comes home, he's going to need to stay in bed and rest, especially the first few days. I could really use your help then." Harry nodded. She had gone through the same thing when Dr. Wilson had removed her tonsils five years before.
"Please, Mummy, can I go with Amy to the park this afternoon? Her daddy's gonna take us. We were going to join our friends there." She shifted her weight from foot to foot as she spoke.
Mummy nodded. "Better get your chores finished before then, so you'll be free this afternoon." Harry nodded.
Fortunately, for the rest of that day, even after Mr. Pitman brought Harry home before supper, because Daddy wasn't home, peace and quiet filled the house. He didn't come home that night, even; Harry suspected he was out drinking. Maybe if they were lucky, he wouldn't come home till Johnny was well. She hoped. Because Johnny found everything so hard to swallow, all Mummy gave him were ice cream and cold drinks.
The next morning, it was raining outside, so they were going to have to wear their rubber mackintoshes and their rubber Wellingtons over their plimsolls, when they went to the hospital. On Mummy's orders, Harry woke up her sick little brother and helped him get dressed, and then put his mackintosh and Wellies on him. Since Daddy hadn't come home the day before or that morning, the house had been pretty quiet, which had been a relief; she could only hope that he wouldn't come home that day, either. Mrs. Templeton was already waiting for them in the lounge, wearing her own dripping-wet mackintosh and Wellies.
"I've left Hamish a note in case he comes home before we get back. It's on the kitchen table," Mummy told Mrs. Templeton, who nodded. As soon as Mummy, Harry, and Johnny were ready to leave, she drove them to Broomfield Hospital.
As soon as Johnny had been checked in, a nurse put a hospital bracelet on his left wrist. "The doctor will be out here to bring you up to date when he's finished," she told Mummy, before taking the little boy out of the room. Mummy, Mrs. Templeton, and Harry removed their mackintoshes and Wellies but left on their plimsolls, and then they took their seats on one of the rows of chairs that lined the edge of that room. Harry sighed. It was going to be a long wait! She had not thought to bring a book with her. She started fidgeting in the armchair she had flopped into and started rubbing her left arm with her right fingertips. If only there was something to do!
"Uh, Jean, why don't I take Harry downstairs to the gift shop, and we'll browse around there?" Mrs. Templeton broke into the young girl's thoughts.
Mummy smiled at her daughter. "I think that's a good idea. It'll won't be more than half an hour or so before Dr. Wilson's finished, but it'll be several hours before Johnny's ready to go home."
Mrs. Templeton rose to her feet, and Harry leaped up. "Come on, Harry," Mrs. Templeton said. "Let's see what goodies the gift shop has downstairs." Harry smiled at the prospect and accompanied Mrs. Templeton down the lift to the ground floor. She still had some money left over from yesterday's outing; perhaps she would find something in the gift shop she could afford, something that would keep her occupied in the lobby when they returned.
When, a half-hour later, the two of them returned to the lobby where Mummy was waiting, Harry had a new paperback book for older children in her hand that Mrs. Templeton had bought for her, and Mrs. Templeton had a wall decoration that she had purchased for her half of the semi-detached prefab that she owned. As soon as they sat down, Harry flipped open her new book and began to read the first chapter.
"Mrs. Watson?" Dr. Wilson's voice broke Harry's concentration a few minutes after she had started reading. Closing her book, she looked up at him. The doctor was wearing light-blue surgical scrubs. He smiled at them as he clasped his hands behind his back. "Well, the operation was a success, I'm glad to say. I removed all of the infected tissue, but left a small layer of healthy tissue so that the throat muscles will be protected underneath. At the moment, Johnny's in recovery; when he's ready to go home, we'll discharge him. I'll have a prescription for you to fill and a list of instructions for his post-operative care by the time you leave, for you to take home with you."
Mummy nodded. "Thank you. How long will it be till he's ready to leave? And what can he eat?"
"Barring any unexpected complications, it shouldn't take more than a few hours for him to be ready to leave the recovery room. As for food, first of all, don't feed him any food that's crunchy, spicy, or hard. Since his throat is so sore and tender that he's going to find all foods painful to swallow for the next few days, just stick to bland foods that he'll be able to swallow easily: in addition to ice cream and juice bars, applesauce, broth, and custard will be good choices for his sore throat. Make sure he drinks plenty of fluids; if drinking hurts his throat too much, give him ice lollies. I'll give you an anaesthetic spray before you leave, so he'll be able to swallow those foods and the liquids he'll need." Mummy nodded. Dr. Wilson added, "It'll be necessary for him to stay pretty close to his bed for the next few days, and to avoid any strenuous activities for the next two weeks. If all goes well, and there are no complications, he should be able to return to school two weeks from now. The instructions I'll give you will tell you all this and more."
Mummy nodded again and smoothed her hair back. "Thank you. I'll go over them."
Dr. Wilson glanced down at his watch. "Well, I'd better get back to recovery so I can keep an eye on him. I'll let you know when he's ready to be discharged." Mummy nodded, and he left the lobby; Harry opened her book to the chapter where she had left off. She took no notice of the passage of time after that.
A few hours later, the doctor returned to the lobby, accompanied by two nurses, one of who was pushing a wheelchair in which a white-faced Johnny sat slumped. "Well, Johnny," Dr. Wilson asked, bending over, "are you ready to go home?" Smiling weakly, Johnny nodded. The doctor patted his shoulder and straightened his back.
The other nurse handed Mummy a piece of paper on which, Harry noticed, was some typing. 
 she thought.
"I remember when you took out 
 tonsils," she said, as she stood up.
Dr. Wilson nodded. "I'm sure you do, Harry. Since you do remember, you know what it's going to be like for your little brother, and what's going to have to be done for him until he's well." Harry nodded. "Remember that you got to eat lots of ice cream while your throat was recovering?" he asked her. Harry smiled; she sure did, and it was one of her nicer memories of that time. "Well, your little brother will get to have his share now, and lots of it."
Dr. Wilson handed Mummy a small bottle. "This bottle contains the anaesthetic spray I promised you, Mrs. Watson. It'll ease the pain in Johnny's throat. That'll make it easier for him to swallow liquids and eat any bland foods that are not cold." With a smile, Mummy nodded her thanks and stuck the bottle in her pocket.
As the nurse pushed Johnny's wheelchair towards the entrance door, the others walked close to him until they all stepped out the door and towards the car. It had quit raining, and the sun had come out; puddles lay scattered on the pavement, glistening in the sunshine. Dr. Wilson lifted Johnny out of the wheelchair, and as soon as Mummy had opened the front passenger door, he gently sat the little boy on the front vinyl passenger seat. Harry slid into the back seat.
Mummy fastened his seat belt for him and closed the door. "Thanks again, Doctor," she said, smiling.
"My pleasure." Dr. Wilson smiled back. "In addition to the instructions, you'll find a list of possible complications on the paper my nurse gave you, to watch out for; hopefully, none of them will occur. But if any of them do, ring me." Mummy nodded and, folding the paper, slid it into her purse along with the bottle, and the doctor and nurses left. Mummy got into the back seat with Harry, and Mrs. Templeton slid onto the driver's seat and inserted the key into the ignition. Within seconds, they were pulling out of the hospital parking area and driving back toward Taylor Avenue.
When they arrived back on Taylor Avenue, which was also spattered with glistening puddles, and drove past the council houses and brick houses towards the few one-story semi-detached and detached aluminium prefabs near the middle of that short street that included the Watson and Templeton prefabs, Harry saw the car parked in the driveway, and Daddy leaning against the front corner of the right side of the house that faced the parking lot. A cigarette dangled between his fingers; Harry could see him blowing smoke. He looked down at the ground, the usual scowl on his face.
She bit her lower lip and shook her head. 
 She fidgeted and scowled.
Mrs. Templeton pulled into the driveway at 9 Taylor Avenue behind Mummy and Daddy's car, and as soon as Mummy had climbed out of the back seat, she circled the car and, opening the front passenger door, helped Johnny out. Harry got out of the back seat, hopping in order to avoid the puddle next to the back of her side, and circled the car to join her mother and little brother and be ready to help Mummy. "I'll be back with the other foods Johnny'll need," Mrs. Templeton promised, and pulled back out onto the street.
Even though Daddy had lifted his head as they had got out of the car, he didn't look at them, but a look of disgust etched his face, nonetheless, and he spat on the ground. "OK, don't come whining around me, Johnny! I'm busy." His voice sounded disgusted. Johnny didn't even look at him or utter a sound, but hung his head as his mother helped him toward the front door.
what
 Harry wanted to shout at him as she followed her mother, who was helping Johnny up the wooden porch steps and onto the sagging wooden front porch. He clearly wasn't busy doing anything except smoking! And besides, Johnny was in no shape to be whining, anyway; his throat was much too sore. She didn't dare say anything, though; she knew what Daddy would do if she talked back. Instead, she glared at him and then turned her face toward the front door.
Next to her, Mummy pressed her lips into a thin line, and an expression of disgust etched her face. It wasn't hard to guess what Mummy was thinking. Scowling, Harry followed her mother and brother through the doorway into the lounge.
A few minutes later, after Mummy had helped Johnny change into his pyjamas and tucked him under the covers, she and Harry left the bedroom. Mummy sighed wearily. "It's just your daddy's way, Harry; you know that. We've got to make allowances for him, you and me."
Harry did not say anything in response. 
 she silently wondered, fierce resentment surging in her heart. 
father
 She scowled again. With a sad smile, Mummy patted her shoulder and left the hall.
With a sigh, Harry carried her new book into the lounge and flopped onto the sofa. She might as well read some more. At least, she could do that without disturbing Johnny. Shifting position on the sofa's soft cushion, she flipped her book open and returned to the page where she had left off.
