Dr. John Watson, who had just finished packing the supplies that he had bought for his bedsit, snapped shut the lock on the trunk that Sherlock had brought for his use. He had only helped Sherlock Holmes solve a series of murders the night before, on January 30th, 2010, and now he was ready to move into his new flatmate's home. John had already packed his suitcase, duffle bag, and army pack with the possessions he'd brought with him from Afghanistan; late that morning, he had told his landlord, Mr. Kalluri, that he had found another place to live, and that he'd be moving out that day. He would leave his key with his now-ex-landlord before leaving the building. He smiled. It wasn't only the last day of the month, but it was also the last day of his existence in his bedsit. His depressing life in that bedsit had already ended.
Once John had finished unpacking, he would ring his IERO to let him know of his new address, and then he would fill out the form that Mrs. Hudson had given him that morning. Since Sherlock held the lease, John wouldn't have to sign one, but he did have to fill out the paperwork that Mrs. Hudson kept on file for all of her tenants. In the process, he would have to write on the form the name of his current employer (none), as well as his now-previous landlord's name as a reference and other necessary details.
With a sigh, the former army doctor turned to Sherlock, who stood next to the now-stripped single bed in his coal-black Irish wool tweed Belstaff coat over one of his customary suits, and his blue tasselled cashmere scarf wrapped around his neck. Behind him, the mid-afternoon sun shone through the curtains covering the portion of the window that the heavy yellowish-green drapes didn't hide; the sunlight illuminated the room. He gave Sherlock an easy smile of thanks and nodded toward the trunk. "I don't know where you got hold of that trunk, Sherlock, but thanks. My own luggage wouldn't have been able to hold it all."
"Yes, well, the sooner you're packed, the sooner you can move in," Sherlock pointed out. John smiled. It was true, and besides, he had no desire to remain in that dreary bedsit even a minute longer than he just had to. Returning to the kitchenette, he packed his remaining food in the grocery bags, putting his perishable foods in a cooler bag. Upon returning to Baker Street, he would put the perishables in the refrigerator first thing, and then he'd get started unpacking and putting away everything else. At least, he didn't have much to unpack, so it wouldn't take long. Placing his hands on the rim of the sink, he paused to look out the window above it. The mid-afternoon sun poured light into the small kitchenette.
 he thought, still smiling. 
 He rolled his eyes. 
Or
 He snorted at the thought.
that
 
so
He knew that Sherlock concurred with him on that last point. He had seen the consulting detective's grimace as the taxi and the moving van had turned onto the dodgy, unattractive, rundown street where John had been living, and Sherlock's disapproving scowl upon entering the dull-green bedsit.
so
, John thought. 
 He smiled at the thought. He had walked every day because he'd needed to, but he had never enjoyed walking in that rundown neighbourhood, and as suitable as Russell Square was for walking on the days of his therapy appointments, Regent's Park was so much nicer. It would be a fantastic place to take his daily walks after this. And it was most fortunate that he would not have to walk so far to take the tube or the bus anymore, since unlike Sherlock, he couldn't afford taxis, as a rule. He had had to dip into his current account to pay for the taxi that he had ridden in, to trail Sherlock the night before. 
Turning around, he said out loud, "As soon as we get back to Baker Street, I'd better ring my IERO, so I can let him know I've moved." 
 he thought. 
"And why would you do that?" Sherlock entered the kitchenette and put his hands on his hips. "Except for one—no, two times—you rang him, he was never available to take your calls, and he never responded to your voicemail messages. Besides, he's probably read your blog."
Rubbing the back of his head, John grimaced. "True. All too true, except for your last point; since he's never posted a review to any of my posts, I have no way of knowing if he reads them. However, since he 
 my IERO, I'm under obligation to inform him of any change of address, so I've got to ring him, even if it's only to leave a message on his voicemail."
"That won't be necessary." Removing his mobile phone from his inside suit jacket, Sherlock pressed a shortcut on its screen, followed by some more. As soon as he had pressed down on the screen the last time, he slipped his phone back into his pocket. "I've just texted him, informing him of your new address."
Smiling and rolling his eyes, John shook his head before picking up the grocery bags. "We'll have to make at least two trips to get everything in the moving van you hired," he said, as he set them on the suitcase. "We can carry my other luggage out to the van in one trip, but the trunk is going to have to be taken down there separately."
"No, it won't." Sherlock turned toward the entrance door as the moving van driver and another man entered the bedsit.
"Is this your luggage?" the driver asked John, gesturing towards the trunk and the other luggage.
With a nod, John picked up his army pack and the now-bulging grocery bags. "Yes." After the driver picked up the suitcase and duffle bag, the other man grasped the edges of the trunk and lifted it. The two men carried them out the door and down the hall towards the lift, followed by Sherlock and John. As soon as they reached the ground floor, while the men carried John's luggage out the lobby door and to the kerb, John returned his bedsit key to Mr. Kalluri while Sherlock waited for him inside the office doorway. Upon following Sherlock out into the bright sunshine and towards the kerb, he discovered that the men had loaded it all in the back of the moving van. The wind was blowing from the east, he noticed. Since it was the last day of January, and since the wind felt chilly, John's old second-hand Haversack jacket felt good over his now-rumpled oatmeal-coloured jumper and the equally rumpled button-down blue plaid shirt underneath, which he had also worn the day before and slept in the night before. The van driver took John's army pack, grocery bags, and cooler bag from his hands and set them in the van along with the rest before closing the back doors.
The two men then climbed into the driver's seat and closed the van doors; John and Sherlock stepped into the taxi idling behind it. Pulling away from the kerb, the two vehicles entered the left lane and drove toward the Thames River and Westminster.
 John thought, glancing down at his hands, which were resting on his lap, and then gazing out the window at the shops whizzing past
 A wry smile crept across his face. 
As soon as the taxi and the moving van had pulled up in front of 221B Baker Street, the front door swung open just as John and Sherlock were getting out of the cab; Mrs. Hudson stood in the doorway, beaming. "Here, John! I've already got the doors to the lounge and your new room open, so you'll be able to carry everything inside as soon as you come in," she said. "I've also got your keys to give to you." Smiling broadly, John approached the door, and Mrs. Hudson handed him his new keys and then stepped back so that he and Sherlock could enter the hall. John stuffed his new keys in his jeans pocket. He would put them on his key ring later, when time permitted.
With both hands, the driver picked up John's suitcase, army pack, duffle bag, and grocery bags, and the other man lifted the trunk. They carried John's luggage up the stairs into the lounge, where they set them on the floor in the corner. Immediately, John removed the perishables from the cooler bag and put some of them in the freezer and the rest of them in the refrigerator, and then stepped back into the lounge. "Thank you," he said, smiling as he removed his Haversack jacket and glanced down at his rumpled oatmeal-coloured jumper and blue jeans.
"You're welcome, mate," the driver said, smiling back, and then he and the other man left.
Mrs. Hudson stood hovering to the side, waiting to help, as John hung his jacket on a door hook and then started off by opening the trunk, sorting out his possessions as he removed them, since they would be going into different rooms. He took the kitchen supplies and the first-aid kit into the kitchenette and put them away, while Mrs. Hudson took his bathroom supplies into the bathroom in the hall across from the kitchenette and next to Sherlock's bedroom. Next, John laid his phone charger and the mobile phone on the side table next to the stuffed armchair that he had claimed for his own during his previous visit the night before, and then he set his books in one of the bookcases alongside Sherlock's. He already knew that he would be using that armchair a lot; it helped that a Union Flag cushion lay against its back. He laid his laptop, pens, and spiral notebooks on the table next to the lounge window, where Sherlock had already laid some of his own things.
"You won't be needing these anymore, John," Sherlock announced, holding up the bedcovers. "You'll be sleeping in a double bed from now on, so I'll just bin these."
"No!" Whirling around and darting toward his new flatmate, John snatched the bedcovers from Sherlock's arms before Sherlock could take them out the door. "These are perfectly good bedcovers, and someone will be able to use them, if I can't. I'll donate them to Oxfam first chance I get, so just leave them, Sherlock." 
 he thought.
He glanced down at his suitcase. "Well, I'd better take my suitcase, duffle bag, and army pack upstairs; I've still got to put my clothes away." He pressed his lips together. "Along with certain other things." He didn't dare say anything about his gun in front of Mrs. Hudson.
"While you finish unpacking, John, I'll go downstairs and make us all some tea," Mrs. Hudson offered. "Then I'll take your old bedding to Oxfam, since I've got a couple of errands to run this afternoon, anyway."
John smiled at her. "That's very kind of you, Mrs. Hudson, and tea would be lovely. Thank you."
Grasping the handles of his suitcase, army pack, and duffle bag in both hands, he carried them up the stairs to his new bedroom on the second floor, where he laid them all on the double bed. Mrs. Hudson had made it for him before he and Sherlock had arrived, he noticed; the bedcovers looked so fresh and clean, and the bed looked inviting. As soon as he could, he would need to purchase some new sheets and pillowcases for his new bed; he would go to the nearest Poundstretcher to buy some.
His NHS-issued aluminium cane still leaned against the wall in the corner where John had left it the night before, he noticed; picking it up, he placed it in the back of his new wardrobe. Thank goodness he no longer needed it! Hopefully, his left hand's intermittent tremor would no longer be much of a problem, either, after this. After dining at the Chinese restaurant near Roland Kerr College the night before, where the cab driver-turned-serial killer had come so close to murdering Sherlock before John's intervention, John and Sherlock had taken a taxi back to Sherlock's flat in Westminster at 2:00 in the morning, where John had taken a quick shower and then taken his cane upstairs, removed his jeans, and slept in his jumper, button-down shirt, and boxers on the double bed's bare mattress and pillow, leaving his jeans folded on the dresser and his socks rolled up in his shoes on the floor. That morning, as soon as they'd been satisfied that the businesses were opening, Sherlock had rung the moving van company and asked them to send a van and a driver to John's bedsit that afternoon, to take his things to Baker Street. Upon Sherlock and John's arrival at his bedsit, as Sherlock had watched, John had spent the next several hours cleaning the bedsit and then packing his things in preparation for his move to his new residence.
John spent the next several minutes unpacking his bags and putting away his clothes in his new bedroom, and then paused for a moment, to gaze at the clothes hanging in his new wardrobe. 
 he thought. 
Turning around to finish the job, the retired army doctor laid his rubber therapy ball on his new dresser, and then he laid his gun and bullets in one of the dresser drawers at the bottom. Thank goodness he had cleaned his gun early that morning; at least there was no evidence that it had been used the night before. He would try to figure out what to do with it later; perhaps, later, he would also set his phone charger on the bedside table in there. He would also put his new keys on his keyring. When he had finished unpacking everything and putting them all away, John closed the bags and set them on the floor in the wardrobe. Then he changed his clothes and dumped his dirty clothes into the laundry bag that lay in the corner. At that point, he looked at the street outside, flooded with sunlight by the mid-afternoon sun.
With a sigh of contentment, John sank down onto the edge of the double bed and, perched there with his hands clasped in his lap, gazed at his new surroundings. A contented smile spread across his face. This was a much nicer bedroom than any he had ever slept in before, whether it was his and Harry's former shared bedroom in their family's detached aluminium prefab bungalow on Taylor Avenue in Chelmsford, his non-en suite at Kings College London, the army, or his most recent bedsit. His new bedroom had much better storage space than his bedsit had: it had a wardrobe to hang his clothes in, and a dresser to store his pyjamas, boxer shorts, and socks inside. And the lounge downstairs was so nice and homey, nothing like his old depressing bedsit! It would be a great place to read a book, to spend some time on his laptop, or to watch telly or listen to the radio. He himself had never owned a telly or a radio—he'd never been able to afford any—but he'd noticed that Sherlock did.
And since Sherlock's flat had a full bathroom off the hall and next to his bedroom, and a cloakroom
 on the second floor next to John's cheerful new bedroom, at least John could use his own toilet and shave his face when he was upstairs or when Sherlock was using the other one, and the only person he would have to share the tub with was Sherlock. He would brush his teeth downstairs in the main bathroom, since it would be pointless to go upstairs to his cloakroom after meals simply to clean them. He knew that Mrs. Hudson had already put his dental supplies in the bathroom downstairs.
never
 the ex-army doctor thought, reaching up with his left hand to scratch the side of his neck. 
His thoughts broke off. A thankful smile spread across his face. 
He scanned his new room for a brief moment. 
He rolled his eyes. 
John frowned as an unpleasant reality occurred to him. 
He grimaced. 
 As soon as he could, he would register with the Primary Care Trust
 and start seeking locum work.
In the meantime, at the moment, he knew that he would have to be honest with Mrs. Hudson and admit that he was currently unemployed; hopefully, with the help of the PCT, he would be able to change that soon. Meanwhile, he still had to ring his IERO and then fill out the tenancy agreement, but since it was almost teatime, he would do those afterwards.
"John?" Mrs. Hudson's voice called from the landing below. "Teatime!"
John rose to his feet. "Coming!" he called. After giving his new bedroom one last quick scan and straightening his black-and-white-checkered button-down shirt, he stepped briskly out the door, shutting it behind him; his shoes clicked on the floor as he hurried toward the stairs. His old lonely, dreary life in his bedsit was over; his new exciting, purposeful life on Baker Street was just beginning.
