 I watched all of BBC's Sherlock again recently and since then have since then have been devouring Sherlolly stories at an alarming rate, with occasional side trips to Johnlock. I love the brotherly dynamic between Sherlock and Mycroft and wanted to try my hand at capturing it in the context of the "I love you" scene from The Final Problem. I hope you enjoy. Thanks to my lovely beta Jadzia Bear for her excellent ideas on how to make this story better. Happy reading!
 I don't own Gatiss and Moffat's brilliant creation. No copywrite infringement is intended.
"Sherlock, you must marry."
Mycroft stood in the doorway of 221B Baker Street in his expensive grey three-piece suit, ever-present umbrella in hand, as he delivered what he apparently considered a statement of incontrovertible fact. Indeed, to him it all seemed perfectly logical.
Sherlock did not deign to look up from the phone where he was rapidly texting away. "Busy, Mycroft. Lestrade's found me a seven."
Mycroft advanced a little further into the messy flat. A quick glance at the large amount of papers on the floor told him general standards had gone downhill since John moved out and the alarming number of half-drunk cups littering the small coffee table indicated Mrs. Hudson had been away on vacation for precisely 5.3 days.
"This is a matter of some importance, little brother. Mummy is concerned."
Eyes still on his phone as he texted, Sherlock rose from his armchair and took one step in Mycroft's general direction. "And she could not raise this misplaced concern with me directly because…?"
"She knows how contrary you like to be and so thought I might have better luck persuading you. I tried to tell her it was likely a hopeless endeavor."
Finally Sherlock put his phone in the pocket of his dressing gown. "So why bother to actually come? Just tell her we spoke and I refused to wed," said Sherlock, popping the 'd.'
Mycroft grimaced ruefully. "Having kept from them for nearly three decades the fact that their only daughter was alive, I prefer not to lie to our parents any more than is absolutely necessary."
Sherlock let out an exaggerated sigh. "Fine. So to what can I attribute Mummy's sudden interest in my bachelor status?"
"As you know, my relationship with Lady Smallwood is progressing and I think I can safely predict that soon you will have a sister-in-law. Alicia is well beyond her child-bearing years and it would be quite injudicious to allow Eurus to reproduce, leaving aside the nightmarish logistics of such an undertaking. Ergo, 
 are regrettably our parents' last best hope for grandchildren."
"You and Lady Smallwood could adopt."
"Ah, but the genes, Sherlock, these cannot be replicated. And nurture can only do so much. No, you will have to do the honors."
"You could use a surrogate," Sherlock persisted. "It's hardly scandalous, even for the British Government."
Mycroft pressed his lips in a moue of distaste. "Balance of probability, brother mine. As you are considerably younger than I, your spermatozoa are more likely to produce healthy issue. But we both know you are too, shall we say, 
 to raise a child on your own, making the stabilizing presence of a wife a necessity. How is Dr. Hooper, by the way?" he asked brightly. "Fully recovered from her ordeal, I hope."
A shadow of guilt crossed Sherlock's handsome face and he looked away. "We spoke briefly when I returned from Musgrove." The tone in his voice suggested to Mycroft that the conversation had been less than pleasant. "I explained why I made that phone call and in typical Molly fashion she said she understood and we could just forget the whole thing ever happened. Since then, our interactions have been …cordial."
Mycroft smirked. "As usual, Sherlock, you see but you do not observe. In the two months since we returned from Sherrinford, Dr. Hooper has lost 4 pounds, adopted a short-haired rescue tabby, and taken to playing alarmingly violent video games. Misdirected sexual frustration, I suspect. She's also started looking for alternative employment and from what I've gleaned from her employee evaluations, there should be no shortage of offers coming her way very soon. You'll have to act quickly if you expect to pull this off."
Sherlock's eyes narrowed. "Should I ask why you are surveilling Molly?"
"I surveille everyone you know, Sherlock" Mycroft replied matter-of-factly, not the least bit contrite. "Since you are less than communicative with me, I'm reduced to alternative means of gathering information on developments in your life."
"Well, I want you to stop. It is a gross violation of her privacy."
Mycroft laughed. "Says the man who thoughtlessly invaded her home whenever he needed a bolt hole, knowing she would never refuse you."
"Yes," Sherlock shot back, annoyed. "But circumstances have changed. I am determined to treat Molly with more respect from now on."
"Which is why you should begin wooing her properly immediately. The presence of a cat is not an insurmountable obstacle, you like animals well enough. But if she were to remove herself from London your task would be considerably harder." Sherlock remained silent as he moved to pick up his violin. "It's already been established, albeit under most unfortunate circumstances, that you love each other. I fail to see the problem."
"I... I don't love Molly Hooper," Sherlock insisted. "I said that under duress, to save her life." Mycroft fixed him with a piercing, skeptical stare. "Molly is a 
, a far better one than I deserve. As to marriage, I manipulated her feelings for me for years to gain access to lab equipment and body parts. I humiliated her on multiple occasions, both in private and in public. In short, I have hurt her tremendously, Mycroft, and I've no doubt I am the very last person she'd want to marry, let alone have a child with." He began savagely dragging his bow across the strings, producing a harsh, decidedly unmusical sound.
Mycroft's face softened a tiny degree. "You forget, Sherlock, I was in the room. I heard you say it. Twice, when one time would have sufficed to thwart Euros' plan. I watched you eviscerate that pathetic coffin. You do love Dr. Hooper."
Sherlock lowered the violin to his side and sighed. "Perhaps I do. I don't know." He studied the empty fireplace for a while before saying quietly, "And perhaps… perhaps I am too damaged to be a proper husband and father."
"Maybe you should explore an honest relationship with Dr. Hooper and let her decide that," Mycroft replied mildly. "I also heard her response, and that was hardly the voice of a woman who hates you." He gave Sherlock a moment to absorb this. "Start with a simple date. Some low-stakes activity she's comfortable with. You both like fish and chips. Ask her to accompany you to a 
." Mycroft drew the last word out as though it had offended him. "Apologizing again probably wouldn't hurt your case, either. But don't show up unannounced at her flat to do it, and for God's sake don't summon her to Baker Street! Ask her at the morgue. It's her home turf, and somewhere where she can easily get away from you if need be. And above all," he added sternly, "
 spend the whole date deducing or 
 at her!"
Sherlock looked curiously at his brother. "When did you become such an expert on asking a woman out?"
"I have the benefit of Lady Smallwood's perspicacity. I've no doubt Mary Watson would have given you similar advice."
Sherlock was thoughtful for a few moments before nodding. "I suppose it's worth a try."
"Excellent! Alicia and I shall look forward to tracking your progress on CCTV." Sherlock shot him a dark look. "I will also tell Mummy you are taking the matter most seriously," Mycroft continued, unperturbed.
The elder Holmes turned to leave.
"Mycroft?" The buttoned-up man paused at the door. Sherlock gave him a calculating look. "I could father a child out of wedlock just as well. Find myself a 'baby mummy'. This isn't really about me procreating, is it?"
Mycroft raised the tip of his umbrella towards his face and examined it closely. "Who can say where chips might lead, little brother," he replied airily. "Why don't you just take it one goldfish at a time?"
 I know the standard pairing for Mycroft is Anthea, but I think it much more plausible that he'd be drawn to Lady Smallwood, who (over multiple episodes) is shown to be strong, intelligent, and independent.
