It had been nearly two years, but still, every night was the same for John Watson.
He would get in bed, hoping, praying that he could escape the nightmare that plagued him.
But every night, John relived his best friend's suicide phone call. Every night, he watched him jump off the hospital roof. And every single night, John would hold his friend's thin wrist, searching for a pulse, praying for a heart to beat once more.
It never did.
He would wake up, drenched in sweat, tears streaming down his face.
Until one night, he couldn't do it anymore.
"I tried, Sherlock, I really did," he said tearfully. "But it's too hard, I can't," he finished, looking at the gravestone bearing his friend's name.
"I, ah, I thought it might be best if I joined you. Tomorrow. I'll see you then."
He paused for a moment.
"Sherlock, I'm sorry I wasn't there for you as much as I should've been. I wish you'd talked to me, told me about-"
John couldn't finish.
"Tomorrow, then, okay?"
The next morning, John dragged himself up and out of bed.
His eyes were red, his hair tousled. He brushed it back into place, brushed his teeth, and picked out his favorite jumper.
As he left the bathroom, he left a pang of sadness for Lestrade, Mrs. Hudson and Molly. So, he wrote them a note, trying to capture how he felt.
He put it right on his pillow, so they would find it later.
 A voice asked.
John looked around the apartment one last time. Memories washed over him, and he closed his eyes, just for a moment.
Then he was off.
He walked until he reached his final destination, the rooftop of Barts.
He remembered, after the fall, he'd gone up to look. There was a bloodstain on the ground, as well as Sherlock's phone.
John had never let go of that. Even now, it was in his pocket.
He took a final look, soaking in London, remembering the times he and Sherlock ran all over the city, chasing criminals, before he spread his arms wide, and prepared for his descent.
"John!"
Just as he pitched forward, a hand reached out, and pulled him back onto the roof, where John stumbled and fell.
He was breathing heavily, laying on his back, until he realized: he knew that voice.
Pushing himself up, he looked upwards with wide eyes to see the face of Sherlock Holmes staring back at him.
"Y-you can't be here, you're dead," he gasped, not fully comprehending.
Sherlock looked pained.
"John, I-"
"No, you're just a figment of my imagination to stop me. I'm-I am doing this." John said, trying to convince himself.
"I need the real you, not...the one in my head. Goodbye, imaginary Sherlock."
He turned and flung himself off the roof.
"JOHN!" Sherlock yelled.
He leaned as far as he could, and grabbed John's hand.
"No! Let me go! I don't-I can't do this anymore!" he screamed, thrashing around.
Sherlock ignored him, and hauled him back onto the roof.
John stood up shakily, and stared.
"It's you. It's really you," he whispered.
"Yes. It's me," Sherlock replied.
John stepped forward and slapped him in the face.
"Two bloody years, Sherlock! For two years we all thought you were dead, and here you are! What was that for?" John yelled.
"To keep you safe," Sherlock replied softly.
"God, Sherlock," John muttered, running a hand through his hair, then he turned and enveloped him in the biggest hug he'd ever given.
"I missed you," he mumbled.
"As did I," Sherlock responded. He was about to let go when he felt tears dripping onto him.
"Oh-John..stop crying, look, I'm sorry, truly, I am…"
"John, really do stop. You know I don't know how to comfort people and all that."
John sat back on his heels, and wiped his eyes.
"Does anyone else know you're back?"
"No, well, except for Mycroft, but he knew I was alive."
"He knew?" John asked, looking wounded. "Who else, Sherlock?"
Sherlock sighed.
"Mycroft, my parents, Molly Hooper, and about...25 members of my homeless network."
"Christ, Sherlock, I'm about to slap you again."
Sherlock bit his lip.
"I wouldn't blame you. I know what I did was unforgivable, but I can't help but ask-"
"Sherlock, of course I forgive you. You don't even have to ask. I just want to know why."
Sherlock sighed heavily again.
"I was dismantling Moriarty's network. I couldn't let you know I was alive because I was afraid they'd harm you or kill you," he explained.
"Your death almost killed me," John muttered.
"I know."
John hugged him again, as if to make sure he was real.
Sherlock wrapped his arms around him, satisfied. This is what he'd waited for from the moment he left.
They stayed like that for a while, on the rooftop of Bart's.
