221 B Baker Street
5:20 P.M.
Sherlock plucked his violin in annoyance as he waited for Janine to arrive. She texted at 5:15 that she was on her way which he knows really means she barely took off… so from her place and taking in mind the current traffic he estimates her time of arrival to be around 15 minutes. He called John and told him to arrive promptly at 6:00 giving him less than a thirty minute window to see Janine out to a cab (before John arrived) and convince her that her son would be safe and entertained with him when in reality he would just convince John to deal with it while he worked on his experiments... Although it probably would be better if he could head down to the lab at St. Barts so he could have some peace.
He paused in his thoughts as he heard Mrs. Hudson make her way upstairs. He rose quickly making his way to open the door and take the tray of ginger biscuits and tea from her and place it on the table.
"You must be so excited darling. Oh, young Noah is so sweet I'm sure you have nothing to be nervous about. You know I remember the first time I babysat my sister's kids. This was back in Florida oh they were little terrors, but you just have to show them who is in charge. Little Helen and Brian I swear one second they would be sitting down quietly, but if you took your eyes off them for a second they would be climbing the walls!"
"It is really unlikely that your niece and nephew could actually climb the walls Mrs. H. Unless of course you were partaking in some of your herbal soothers. Were they herbal soothers or were you getting a taste of your ex-husband's merchandise?"
"Sherlock Holmes! Oh, you hush young man you of all people should be the last to go on about that. Now, just remember to not take your eyes of little Noah. You should clean the kitchen too and any of your things. Honestly Sherlock do you have any idea how many things children can get their hands on if you're not looking. The last thing you need is for Noah to get one of your experiments and-"
"MRS. HUDSON! I am sure I can handle a three year old. Thank you for the biscuits off you go."
Sherlock ignored her tuts of disapproval (and warnings as she left heading back to her flat) and made his way to the window it was already 5:28 and he could just make out a cab pulling up to 221. Sherlock turned quickly to the kitchen table taking notice of the petri dishes and vials of varying substances next to his microscope, he frowned before heading to his room and grabbing a large cardboard box to hold his experiments for the time being till Janine was gone and placed it up in John's old room. He managed to do this quickly in two minutes barely making his way down the stairs as Janine knocked on his door.
Taking a deep breath and schooling his features he opens the door with a loving smile on his face. "Hello love, how's this little fella."
Janine smiled rolling her eyes as she walked passed him holding Noah in her arms, "He's fine. You're lucky though I think the cab ride over nearly put him out."
Sherlock nodded taking a quick glance at his phone noting 5:32 on the lock screen.
"I fed him lunch before we left, and I brought food for him in this bag just make sure to pop it in the oven for five minutes or so to warm them up. It's just some dino-nuggets and homemade chips but it should tide him over. I also brought his favourite juice I'm scared of putting it in the fridge. Tell me there is no head or thumbs in there I've heard stories from Martha. Shame on you Sherl you'll give the poor woman a heart attack one of these days."
"Mrs. H. is a lot tougher than you think, love. Anyway, I cleaned the fridge last week and can assure you that there are no body parts in there."
Janine nodded lowering Noah to the floor watching as he wandered around the room. Making sure to keep him in her sights she headed to the kitchen placing the small portable cooler bag with the food and juice in the fridge happy to see that Sherlock had kept his word. 'Although he really should go shopping.' She thought as she noted the only things in the fridge was half a dozen carton of eggs, a gallon of milk- expired at that, a block of cheddar, and a large zipper storage bag filled with various condiment packets from the various takeout places Sherlock ate from.
She frowned turning to face him, "Are you sure you'll be okay?"
Sherlock nodded as he moved around armchairs heading towards the fireplace where young Noah was looking up his tiny arms reaching for his skull. Picking up the boy he held him at eye level with Billy curious to see the boy's reaction and amused when he started mumbling nonsense to it his hand reaching out to touch Billy's zygomatic bone.
"If you have any trouble. If anything happens to him, Sherl you better call me."
Sherlock sighed and turned to face her Noah's arms and legs wrapped around his chest koala style, "We'll be fine Janine. I won't let anything happen to him. I swear."
Janine smiled at the sight of her two boys, "Alright. Make sure to feed him at 7:30 so you can put him to bed at eight and I know right now he might be a bit sleepy but its best if you keep him awake so you don't mess with his sleeping schedule. I brought some toys too these are blocks he likes making towers and knocking them down. I'm sure you both can have fun with that. I also have toy train set its actually quite fun you'll have to set up the tracks and put the carriages together but if you want it's probably better to just give him one carriage for him to play with. I also brought his tablet it has some games there if he decides to play with it keep an eye on him, so he doesn't throw it he still doesn't know how to take care of his things. There's also some videos I have bookmarked for him to watch on YouTube that should help. And I also have books in there for you to read him. And there's also his blankie and bunny he can't sleep without out them. There's also some pjs and extra pants in there just in case he wets himself. It hasn't happened since he learned to use his potty, but you never know. If he needs to go you'll have to help. I bathed him this morning so unless there are any accidents you won't have to worry about that. I'll be back by 11-12:30 the latest. Do you need me to explain anything?"
Sherlock blinked as he took in everything thing she said, "Feed him by 7-ish and he goes to sleep at eight."
Janine holds in a sigh, "I'll text you the information, so you don't forget. If there is any- "
"If anything happens I'll make sure to call, but it won't be necessary. Now go have fun you deserve it. I'm sure your girlfriends are waiting," Sherlock cuts her off as he catches a glance at the time: 5:46 He's cutting it really close "I took the liberty of calling you a cab don't worry about the fare I already covered it with the cabbie he should be downstairs waiting for you and will pick you up later tonight to bring you back here, now off you go."
Janine shakes her head leaving Noah's bag of toys and clothes on the couch and heads towards Sherlock giving her son a kiss then her boyfriend making sure to ruffle his curls knowing he doesn't like it, "Bye Baby, Mum will be back before you know it."
Sherlock nods rushing her down and seeing her into the taxi both him and Noah waving bye.
6:13 P.M.
"No. No. Absolutely not! Are you out of your mind you can't just leave him- And no you cannot take him on a case either!" John yelled at his former flat mate.
"I won't be leaving him alone. That's why you're here, consider it practice for when your child is born."
"I don't need practice I've gotten enough of it looking after you. Sherlock you promised Janine you would take care of Noah. Just wait till he falls asleep and then watch some telly till she comes back."
"Bo-ring!"
John sighed tuning to look at Noah who was on the floor playing with toy blocks, "I'm leaving Sherlock."
"No, you are not I already texted Mary and she agreed to go out with Janine to the restaurant. You have nothing to do."
John took a deep breath stopping himself from reaching out and throttling his best friend till he loses consciousness, "Fine."
"I knew you- "
"Shut up. I will stay here to watch the child with you. You will not leave this flat. You will not go off on a case or work on an experiment in fact hand over your phone."
Sherlock eyes widened slightly for a second as he took in his friends words, "No."
John didn't say a word choosing to stare Sherlock down.
"That look is not as threatening as you think- ", the detective paused as John raised up a finger with his left and took his right phone out of his pocket scrolling through his contacts. Sherlock catching on open and closed his mouth before petulantly crossing his arms over his chest, "You're bluffing."
John shrugged and hovered his index finger over the button.
"Fine! Can I at least send one text."
John paused, "To who?"
His phone chimed and Sherlock sighed, "Make that two texts. The first to Gavin it's about that burglary case that I consulted on yesterday, inside job one of the clerks barely a two but it's been a slow week."
"Go ahead. And the second?"
Sherlock groaned, "Apparently brother dearest has decided to inform my parents on my new… relationship… status with Janine unless I take them the next two times they're in town to the theater. Bastard."
John smirked and shook his head Sherlock's relationship with Mycroft and their parents never failed to amaze him at just how ordinary it was in comparison to… well everything else. "Go on then."
Sherlock nodded sending the messages then grudgingly handing the phone over, "Don't turn it off. I'm sure sometime tonight Janine is bound to check in."
"Alright, I'll place it next to… where's your skull?" John said walking over to the mantel leaving Sherlock's phone on it then turning around finally spotting it on the couch next to Noah who every once in a while after building a new tower turned and nodded to it. John could practically picture Noah as a young Sherlock already with those brown curls and choice of companionship.
Sherlock groaned as he moved to his chair to sit down hands moving under his chin.
"So, we just… observe him."
John nodded as he sat on the couch beside Billy the Skull and closer to Noah to watch him. He grabbed Noah's bag of toys that Janine left behind and started pulling out the toy train tracks and putting them beside him then reaching in for the two books Janine brought for Sherlock to read Noah.
"Pretty much, yeah."
Noah noticing John pulling out one of the train cars knocked over his tower of blocks and moved over to John reaching for it.
Sherlock didn't bother to hide his groan of discontent before rising quickly, "Food you must be hungry. I'll just step out downstairs and- ".
"Nope. Sit your arse down. I see that plate of biscuits on the table we can eat that for now then order in for dinner."
"I hate you."
"Oh, stop being dramatic and help us with these," John said as he put together another set of train tracks on the floor with Noah.
7:00 P.M.
"Cho- choo!" John smiled as Noah mimicked the train.
"Do I have to lie here it's ridiculous. Turn that off if you even think about putting that on the blog or showing it to anyone down at the yard I'll never forgive you."
John laughed moving his camera so Sherlock could be in the shot. The consulting detective was currently lying down on the floor his head lying on one of the toy rails with Billy next to him.
"Yes, you have to wait for Noah to save you and this isn't for the yard although I might show Greg. It's for Mary and Janine."
"Ouch!" Sherlock yelled as he sat up and glared at the child yanking the train from his grasp, "He hit me!"
John laughed, "It's a toy. I doubt you'll get concussed now give it back."
"Mine!" Noah yelled reaching over to try and tug the train car from sherlock who raised his arm out of the child's reach.
"No."
"Mine! Give it back!"
"Fat chance you should have thought of that before you hit me- "
"Sherlock, he's a kid just give it back."
"You're on his side then." Sherlock glared at John as he rose to his feet tossing the toy train to the ground on the other side of the table and muttering a "fetch" to Noah who glared back and ran over to get it.
…
"Yeah that's about it. Right 20 minutes. Good. Good. Yeah that's all." John ended the call and looked over to the living room only to see Noah playing on his tablet.
"Sherlock?"
John groaned when he heard no reply and made his way to Noah, "Where did he go?"
Noah frowned before raising his arm and pointing up towards his old room.
"Right just um stay there and uh don't move."
"Hungry."
"Yeah I know. Food's in the oven warming up just a wait a bit yeah. Be right back."
John made his way up the steps pausing to listen as he heard Sherlock talking with someone. The prat must have gotten his phone when he was ordering the lo mein.
"There must be something?" he heard Sherlock ask, "Please I'll take anything. No! Don't hang up. Molly don't you dare. Molly? Damn it!"
"Ahem!"
"Oh, shut up John! Shouldn't you be watching young Noah. Isn't that one of the rules not to leave them unsupervised! Shame on you, Watson." Sherlock pushed past him and stomped down the stairs.
"Who was that?"
Sherlock gave him a glare as he moved to the kitchen to pull out Noah's food from the oven, while John started clearing the living room table of toys to eat.
"I'm going to assume that was rhetorical considering we both know exactly who I was calling."
"Yes, and why exactly were you calling anyone when I- "
"I'm not a child John you can't tell me what to do no matter how much you'd like to."
John crossed his arms sighing, "I shouldn't even be here. I should be home right now with my wife."
"Oh, quit complaining we both know you wanted to be here."
"That was when I thought you needed me for a case."
The detecting rolled his eyes as he piled the chicken and chips onto a plate and took them to the living room placing them in front of Noah. "Here, Noah."
"Juice! Juice!"
Sherlock nodded, "Right of course. Here you go."
8:05 P.M.
"So, what was it this time? Eyeballs? Toes? Another head?"
"Spleen."
"Right."
Sherlock mumbled something incoherent but the words "idiot" and "Tim" where clear. John smirked holding in a laugh before turning to look at Noah who was spilling water out of the bath with a cup, "And I think that's enough for bath time."
"Here," Sherlock said handing a brown bath towel to John so he could wrap it around Noah.
"You know she's happy, definitely a lot more confident now that she's with 
. He's a nice bloke."
"Pfft nice. Boring. She's far too brilliant for someone like meat dagger."
John hummed absently as he grabbed another towel and used it to dry Noah's hair before grabbing Noah's pajama's.
"There we go, time for bed now."
Noah shook his head before running around John and heading over to the living room again.
"Mum reads story."
John nodded before turning to Sherlock, "I gave him the bath you read him the story. No complaints. I've been doing all the work."
9:00 P.M.
"Yes, he's asleep… No, he wasn't any trouble just a bit of a mishap with the juice earlier, but I bathed -
- John and I bathed him before putting him to bed. Yes, he's sleeping now… Yes, I read to him. No, you do not need to come over I've given the driver strict instruction not to drive you or Mary back home any time before eleven… Well yes I suppose you could just take another cab but that would be incredibly rude after I made the effort to find transport so you could actually enjoy the night out... Alright. Yes, yes, love you too, bye."
Sherlock groaned as he leaned back in his chair ignoring John's amused look.
"Its getting quite serious between you two then?", the doctor asked casually.
"Hmm… yes," the detective muttered without bothering to turn.
John's eyes widened, "Umm well that's uh, great? Yeah umm… And uh how are you handling it? Are you okay with that? You don't have to move too uh fast or uh. I guess…"
"John I rarely, if ever, venture into something that I don't want. You of all people should know that as well as how I lack patience and tolerance etc. etc. for people in general. If I did not want Janine I wouldn't have bothered at taking the next step with her in our relationship now would I? Janine and I are good we are not moving 
."
"Next step?" John asked catching on to Sherlock's slip up, "You don't mean?"
Sherlock shrugged rising and heading over to the window, "John lock the door and turn off the lights we can pretend we're out."
"What? Why? What's going on?"
"Shh!"
A sharp knock at the door followed causing Sherlock to look at John and communicate wordlessly to the man.
Sherlock what the hell.
"Really, Sherlock I know you're both in there let me in and stop acting like a child."
John raised a brow snickering.
"Ah that must be Doctor Watson. Will one of you open the door for God's sake."
You should open the door.
Sherlock replied still nonverbally with a grin.
John shook his head in amusement still holding in a laugh just as a small click was heard from the entrance and the door opened to reveal the elder Holmes.
"John remind me to change the locks."
"He has a key?"
"Obviously. Otherwise it would have taken a good three minutes for him to pick the lock."
"We need to talk, brother mine."
"Ugh, what now Mycroft. Come to blackmail me some more? I could turn the tables you know. Make our parents know that you passed on spending time on them so I as the favourite son had to step up."
John smirked he always did love watching the Holmes brothers banter.
"Considering how I actually have a capacity to remember the important dates and purchase gifts for- ""Is 'capacity to remember' code for Anthea doing all of that for you?"
"Alright, as much as I'm enjoying this conversation. Would you two mind to lower your voices? There is a child sleeping in the other room after all."
Mycroft nodded, "Of course. If you would mind stepping downstairs with Anthea for a few minutes John I need to talk to my brother. It's a matter of national security."
John scoffed but nodded making his way towards the door barely catching Mycroft say, "Is there a reason why you visited the family vault?"
…
Sherlock looked around the room ignoring his brother.
"Sherlock!"
"Fine, I thought it was rather obvious? What other reason would a man in an established relation look for a ring? You're slipping with age, brother."
"You're lying. We both know you don't do sentiment, despite your current attempt to the contrary, so I ask again. What exactly are you up to that requires taking out grandma's ring from the family vault?"
"Why do you even care its not like you are ever going to use it?"
Mycroft sighed making his way toward John's chair to take a seat next to his brother, "While that's true, I doubt mummy would be particularly happy with using it for your schemes."
"Its not a scheme! I love her alright. Janine is more than I ever thought I could have, and I refuse to let my only chance at happiness escape me! I took the ring out of the vault to propose and make her my wife. Janine Holmes has a nice ring doesn't it? Is that what you want to hear, Mycroft?"
Mycroft scoffed before rising and heading towards Sherlocks bedroom before returning with a small black ring box, "I'm taking this with me if you want it back I suppose you can ask mummy for it."
…
Sherlock clenched his teeth as he rubbed his temples ignoring the looks John was sending. He doubted the man would say anything about the ring. At least not to him he was sure he would tell Mary who hopefully would let something slip to Janine. The plan was working with the exception of having to look for a new ring. He could pick up a random one from the jewelers he doubted Janine would actually keep it once she found out the truth but perhaps she could pawn it and buy herself and Noah something nice. That should hopefully lessen the blow between them. While he didn't particularly love Janine, he did at least care for her and considered her a friend.
11:00 P.M.
John took a quick glance at his phone seeing Mary's message, "Mary says her, and Janine are in the cab on their way back."
Sherlock nodded moving around gathering all of Noah's toys and things into their bags and placing them on the table ready for Janine.
"I called another cab to come and take you and Mary home once she gets here."
"Thanks. So, what did Mycroft want? New case or?"
"Hmm… Wasn't really paying attention. Just ignored him till he left."
"Right. So, are you working on any cases at the moment?"
"Nothing you'd be interested in. I'll be sure to call once I find something."
"Have you asked Lestrade?"
"Gavin is still walking the proverbial tightrope with his boss. I'm thinking of having him promoted or fired but for the former I would have to ask Mycroft and that is not an option. The latter seems impossible as well as he seems to be clean on all fronts."
"Right well uh… I meant to ask what are you doing next month on the twelve?"
Sherlock raised a brow looking at his friend, "Ah the baby shower. I'm sure I can clear an hour of my schedule to drop by."
"Yes. The baby shower although Mary and I were hoping you'd stay for it for more than an hour."
Sherlock's eyes narrowed, "Do I have to?"
"Well no but we'd really like to ask you something."
"Yes, yes you want to ask me to be the 'godfather' to baby Sherlock. Although, I don't really believe in God and I am barely good with children. Are you sure you would want me as a potential guardian for your child if anything were to occur to you or Mary?"
John groaned running a hand through his hair, "One, we are not naming our daughter after you. Sherlock is not a girls name you git. Two, You are my best friend, I have literally put my life in your hands so I know that you would do anything to protect Mary and my child. Three, you made a vow I'm collecting."
"Fine. Who are you two asking to be godmother? Certainly not your sister. Mary doesn't have any siblings just friends… I guess she could pick Janine, but Janine already has one child, so I doubt she'll be able to split her focus equally between her life and your child. So that leaves Molly and Mrs. H."
John ignoring the comment about his sister nodded, "Pretty much yeah. Molly and Mary have grown closer since your umm… return."
"Don't pick between them. I don't see a reason why they both can't be a godmother. You're Catholic you can have Molly be the godmother for the umm… the thing where they drown the baby ah yes the baptism then for the communion you can get Mrs. H. Then that just leaves her confirmation, but I plan to have your daughter converted before she even reaches that stage so lets move on to marriage. You and Mary are dead in this hypothetical so I would walk young Watson down the aisle Mrs. Hudson if she's still around probably won't be able to move as fast due to her hip and age and considering how sentimental Molly is she will most likely be there to help your daughter on her special day since I most likely will fall short. I also think together both Mrs. H. and Molly will manage to physically stop me from killing the groom or umm bride of young Watson."
John's jaw dropped, "Uh okay. So, both that's uh… okay. Umm… maybe its not too late to ask Mike?"
"Nope. You already asked me. I agreed. No take backs."
The doctor gulped, "Right umm… Thank god this is all hypothetical."
"Indeed."
"… Wait why would you kill the groom?"
"Or bride."
"… Right yeah why would you kill my child's future spouse?"
"Isn't that what paternal figures do threaten to kill their daughters partners?"
11:30 P.M.
"Bye Sherlock!" Mary yelled as she pulled her husband down the stairs and into a cab. For a pregnant woman she was fast although he should remember that she was still early in the pregnancy.
Sherlock turned to Janine watching as she gathered her things, "I'll take that to the cab and attach the car seat while you carry Noah."
Janine nodded, "Thank you so much for this Sherl, I mean it. I really did need a night out."
"It wasn't any trouble, love."
"I doubt that but I'm sure I'll get the full story from Mary once John tells her."
Sherlock laughed, "I'm sure. Right well let me take this and I'll see you downstairs. I'll leave the doors open for you."
…
"I'll text you yeah. I'm sure I can get my sister to sit soon so I can spend the night. Just the two of us this time."
Sherlock nodded leaning in to kiss her before pulling back, "Can't wait. Text me when you two get home."
The cabbie honked causing the Irish brunette to glare and whisper harshly, "In a minute and if you wake my son you'll be putting him to sleep. Git."
Sherlock laughed and said goodbye watching as Janine got in the car and the cab drove down the street.
