Writer's note: Before we begin, I have to say, I want Sherlock and Molly to get together as much as anyone else, however, I have to keep to my writer's code and keep the characters in character...so whatever happens, happens.
Setting: The hospital lab a few weeks after "The Final Problem."
Mycroft's POV:
Ever since the affair with our sister, I made it a point to look in on Sherlock more often to see if he had been adversely affected by the experience. That is not to say that I expected him to be unmoved by the ordeal, but, rather, the question was, would it affect him so much so that it would alter his entire personality and cause some sort of break down. According to Dr. Watson, Mrs. Hudson, Inspector Lestrade and Molly, they haven't noticed any particular difference. Sherlock is still the same peculiar Sherlock as before. The only noticeable difference has been small periods of nervous agitation. It is inconclusive if that is a direct result of the affair.
When I stopped round Sherlock's flat this afternoon, Dr. Watson informed me that he had come to the lab to analyze different soil samples. Therefore, I have followed him here.
I have been to this lab before, although not frequently, but I remember my way around and find the lab in question without difficulty. I open the door and step inside.
Sherlock doesn't look up from peering into the microscope and says, "Hello Mycroft."
"Sherlock." I responded. The relationship between my brother and I has never been an easy one but we are still family and that bond runs deep; maybe even deeper now. I began to slowly move about the room, mentally assessing this habitual haunt of Sherlocks. "Your flat seems to be back in order...if you can call that mess that you keep it in any sort of order."
Sherlock looked at me momentarily with an incredulous look as he changed slides in the microscope then returned to studying inside the lens. "It works for me...the same as your flat is so clean that a speck of dust wouldn't dare land on anything."
"To each his own then." I said sarcastically. We continued a few moments in silence. The only noise was that of Sherlock fiddling with the microscope from time to time and me completing my turn about the room. I came to stand on Sherlock's right side at the end of the long lab desk. I took out my watch and checked the time. Once again Sherlock glanced my way.
"I presume that your watchdog attempts are not merely about the restoration of my flat since you are still here."
"Quite so."
"You just checked your watch. I know how punctual you are. Therefore, you have an appointment that you don't want to be late for. Since your curiosity about the flat is satisfied and you still came all the way here to find me then that would suggest..."
Sherlock was beginning to ramble. I sighed and closed my eyes, tucking my watch back into it's pocket. "You can't dazzle me, brother." I said, interrupting him.
"Then why bother yourself? This isn't your usual kind of place."
"Certainly not." I said as I dramatically wiped the table with my hand and proceeded to check my fingers for dust. "I'm satisfied about the state of your flat and your mental health. Both seem to be as good as they are going to get." I paused to enjoy Sherlock's face at my comment before I continued. "No, I came round to find out what you are going to do now, it has been a month now you know." I looked hard at Sherlock now to discern any perceptible clues in body language as to what he was thinking.
Sherlock looked like I was overlooking the obvious. "I'm working, same as always. What else is there?"
"That's not what I was referring to." I said.
"Then what?" Sherlock was getting annoyed. He began putting slides and the microscope away and gathering his things.
"Molly." I stated matter-of-factly.
He only stopped for a moment but it was long enough for me to perceive that he didn't know what to do about her except to ignore the elephant in the room and try to go on the same as always; but that would only work for so long. And this really wasn't Sherlock's area of expertise therefore I assumed he would need as much pushing and prodding as he frequently does to a corpse.
"And what would you suggest, brother?" Sherlock overly stressed the last word in annoyance.
"You always say that people have a bad habit of seeing but not observing and yet you have done it yourself. I thought you were clever."
"I AM clever. The point, Mycroft."
I toyed with my walking stick on the floor choosing my words carefully. "Molly Hooper is on a mental precipice. Don't be the one to push her off the edge, Sherlock." I warned. I turned and headed for the door. As I put my hand on the door knob Sherlock stopped me by saying,
"What the devil is that supposed to mean?"
I smiled indulgently at Sherlock. This was going to take a lot of work, from all of us, to get him to understand. "IF you are that clever, figure it out." I turned back to the door and as I walked out I added. "Think it over carefully, brother o' mine."
Almost a week later…Molly gets a VERY unexpected visit from someone with some "girlie" advice for her about what to do about Sherlock.
Molly's POV
I was grateful that it was quite in the lab today. It had been a relatively light work day for which I was thankful because I hadn't slept good last night and when I did finally awake, I had a horrible headache. I had been dreaming about Sherlock again. Honestly, THAT situation was getting out of control. It was eating away at at me and, as far as I could tell, it hadn't affected him whatsoever; he never mentioned what happened and didn't seem to care.
I had already decided to go home early today after I finished up the report of an autopsy I had done earlier. I was so engrossed in my own thoughts about Sherlock and trying to focus a little bit longer on work that it startled me when I heard a woman's voice at the door and I jumped a bit.
"So...you're the one." When I turned around, the voice belonged to a woman I did not recognize. She was leaning against the door frame with her right hand on her hip. The woman appeared to be around forty years old but very beautiful, very slender, very chic, very sexy and confident...basically everything that I was not. She wore a figure flattering deep red dress with a matching clutch and hat. Her legs were long and slender and she wore black high heels. After the initial shock, the first word that came to mind to describe her was "tramp," but she seemed to intelligent for that.
I shook my head trying to clear the confusion. "Sorry?"
"Oh, don't be alarmed." She purred. "Mycroft phoned me."
"Mycroft?" I repeated in disbelief. "What would he…?"
"Intervention." She said coyly.
My mind immediately flew to Sherlock and I was on the defensive. What possible connection could this...this...this woman have to him? Why would his brother allow that? No, why would his brother instigate that?
The woman laughed at my obvious confusion and came to stand beside me. Her heels were perceptibly louder in the quiet lab.
"I think I need to take you to dinner and explain a few things about me and why I'm here."
"But...I..." I mumbled.
"Honestly, Molly Hooper, I'm here to help you."
"Wait, how did you know my..."
The woman put her gloved forefinger to my lips to shush me. "Please, just come to dinner with me and let me explain, then you can decide if you want my help or not." She looked down at my work. "Are you finished here?"
"Ummm…." I looked down at my paperwork, suddenly wishing there was more to do. I was unsure what to say. "I'm just finishing up." I admitted.
"Perfect. I will be waiting for you in my car out front in, say,….ten minutes."
I just nodded. I didn't know what to think about this mysterious woman. She looked triumphant as she walked out the door. I could still hear the clacking of her heels down the hallway. I just stood there trying to make sense of it all.
Dr. Watson's POV
I was glad to get out of the flat for a while. Sherlock was in a rather foul mood today and not speaking except in snide comments. So, when Lestrade had dropped by to ask Sherlock's opinion about something Lestrade mentioned that I could save him a trip to the lab if I didn't mind to pick up an autopsy report from Molly and drop it by his office, so I gratefully volunteered.
As I entered St. Barts, I wondered what had gotten Sherlock in a dark mood this time. I know he wasn't using again. We were all monitoring him too closely for that.
As I walked down the familiar hallways, old and new memories flooded my mind.
I rounded the corner to go to the elevators and almost bumped into an elegantly dressed woman.
"Oh. I beg your pardon ma'am." I said surprised and stepped to the side to let her pass.
"Excuse me, doctor." She smiled at me and hurried on her way.
I made my way to the elevators only a few feet away and pressed the 'up' button.
As I waited, I was thinking about the woman I bumped into. She certainly was a distraction from thinking of Sherlock. I wondered what a woman like that was doing here. All I could figure was that she was identifying a body, but she didn't seem upset or disturbed enough to have just come from doing something like that. Then it hit me as I carefully studied the picture in my mind….a flash of recognition….
"That was….oh, my God….that was Irene Adler."
I almost fell backwards from the realization of who I had just encountered. I turned from the elevators and ran back towards the entrance.
Dr. Watson's POV
I bolted out the door and searched every face I saw. Gone. Disappeared...again. It is possible that she stepped into another room inside the hospital to evade me but there were only so many places a person could go without proper identification. The adrenaline was pulsing in my veins. As my breathing slowed, I recognized a car parked at the curb on my left. Mycroft. Did he know? Surely, he did. He seemed to know everybody's movements. As I changed directions towards the car, the back door opened up and Mycroft stepped out.
"Dr. Watson." He greeted me as he straightened his suit. I came to stand right in front of him without saying a word. I was getting angry. How could he possibly know Irene Adler was back and not do anything about it? I was several inches shorter than Mycroft so I had to look up at him, and he in turn looked down at me unperturbed. "Dr., I believe we need to have a chat."
"Yes. Yes, I believe we do." I said sternly. I was instinctively flexing my hand ready to punch something. "Did you know that..."
Mycroft cut me off. "Not here, Dr. Come along."
I sighed, resigned. Mycroft was as bad as Sherlock sometimes. However, the only way I was going to get any answers was to go along with him. I sighed again as I went around the backside of the car to the other side and got in beside Mycroft.
"Go." He ordered the driver.
"Where are we going?"
Mycroft smiled. "For a drive."
There was a moment of silence.
"How could you do it?" I demanded. Another long, silent pause. "How could you let her, of all people, come back here? I mean, we don't even know what she may be up to."
"I phoned her to come back." Mycroft stated.
I was shocked. "You what?"
"Yes. I thought it was time for a little...intervention on Sherlock's behalf."
"What are you talking about?"
"Matter's of the heart are not my usual field of interest, and they certainly are not in Sherlock's, however, I believe it is time that we begin to change the effect the past has had on Sherlock." Mycroft paused momentarily and looked out the window. "I'm not intending to change who he is, mind you, just, get him to understand and accept things that are beyond him. Sherlock thinks and feels with his mind. If he feels anything with his heart it is quickly suppressed as unnatural and unwanted. But that is only the fascade he displays because any emotion he may feel is extreme and he doesn't know what to think about it or even what to do about it; and all of that stems from..."
"From what happened with Euros when you were children." I finished Mycroft's sentence. I was beginning to get a deeper understanding of the man that already had my fondest respect and unswerving loyalties.
Mycroft continued. "Precisely."
"I thought it was just his damned stubbornness that made him that way."
Mycroft smiled. "It is in a way, but even his unusual amount of stubbornness stems from Euros. He can't stand to not solve a problem because of her riddle that he never got and what it cost him." He paused. "I'm sure you yourself have observed at times how he seems so callous about something and then goes out of his way to fix it. Or haven't you noticed how fiercely loyal he is even though…."
"Even though he acts like an arrogant prick to everyone." I finished his sentence again. I looked down at my hands. "I've noticed." I had experienced that myself. Sherlock would insult me one minute then race to my rescue the next. "But to people like Anderson, he just...I don't know, its like he can't stand to even be in the same room with them." Mycroft and I both smiled.
"Yes, but there again, even his arrogance is a ripple effect. He didn't solve his first case but he made it a point to never lose again. So in a way Sherlock has earned his little reputation and the arrogance that goes along with it, but he is still vulnerable because of that first and only one that he didn't solve."
At this point my mind flooded with different memories….memories of Mary, of Sherlock pledging to fight for truth and freedom for her, vowing his protection….of Sherlock saving Mrs. Hudson, of all the things that Sherlock had done for me over the years (yes, it may have been accompanied by a joke or a comment at my expense-but I always knew he didn't really mean it). Even when we all thought he was dead, we later found out that he was looking out for us from a distance the whole time. I'm sure we all knew that there were no boundaries that Sherlock Holmes wouldn't cross to save any of us. And in Molly's case, that boundary was his own heart.
Mycroft was silent while I thought about all of this. After a few minutes time, he continued.
"Basically, Sherlock lies to himself. He tells himself he doesn't care about anything but the work when he really does."
I cleared my throat trying to get rid of the lump that had formed there. I didn't look at Mycroft, my own emotion too raw at the moment.
"So what is it you are intending to do?" I asked him.
"You saw and heard everything that happened at Sherrinford, think hard doctor, what do you think Euros was trying to accomplish?"
I cleared my throat again as more painful memories came to mind of that day. I knew it had felt like hell for me, I couldn't imagine what it was to Sherlock.
"She was trying to make Sherlock pay for everything from when you were kids." I stated.
Mycroft smiled a small approving smile. "Very good. The question is how. What was it she kept saying over and over that she wanted from us, particularly Sherlock?"
I thought hard. "Emotional context." I finally answered.
"Yes." Mycroft said slowly, I assumed caught up in his own memories. Then after a moment, he continued. "So, how do you 'confuse' a computer, so to speak?"
"I don't know. How?"
"You give it an unsolvable problem. You see, on the surface, Euros's games were simple, solvable equations, however, they were designed to evoke strong emotional responses from Sherlock. Euros wanted so much to be close to Sherlock when we were boys. What she did to him and Redbeard because she was that jealous, unconsciously caused an emotional shutdown in Sherlock; this time she was trying to overwhelm him with emotion."
"But if she's that clever, then why would she do that?"
"Being more clever was never enough. She wanted to cause him the jealousy and pain that she felt at the time and carried with her all these years."
"I remember after Sherrinford, that Sherlock looked in on you, Lestrade and Molly to make sure you were alright but then he just sat around the flat for three days, he wouldn't eat or anything, he just sat around thinking, hardly saying a word when I asked him if he was alright."
"Yes. He did the same thing after his 'funeral.' He was trying to reason out his emotions."
I looked out the window and was silent for a time. But there was one more point that I still didn't understand. I tried to choose my words carefully.
"I get it so far, but what does all of that have to do with bringing Irene Adler back here? Unless you've forgotten Ms. Adler and Moriarty tried to destroy and kill Sherlock last time. I mean, how can we be sure she won't try anything again?"
"Like I said, matters of the heart are not my forte and the inner workings of the female mind and heart are even more mysterious. I called on Ms. Adler because, from a feminine perspective, she understands Sherlock. She certainly wasn't my first choice, mind you. However, Molly isn't that close to very many people. The one woman that she did seem to confide in was your wife, Mary. Therefore, when I explained the situation to Ms. Adler I asked her assistance in taking Molly under her wing and helping us come up with a plan."
"Another 'calculated risk?'" Mycroft winced slightly at my words. That was a low blow on my part, bringing up his own words about describing his 'treats' to his sister, but I meant them as harsh as they sounded. Didn't he realize how dangerous this was? "And what guarantee do we have that she won't try to get at Sherlock in the meantime?"
"The terms of our agreement are quite specific. She is to help Molly only and is to have no contact with Sherlock of any kind. If she completes the job to my satisfaction, then she can return in peace to America with a full pardon from the British government. If she violates even the smallest term then it is a guarantee of death that she is prosecuted. She agreed to those terms."
"Ok. What is she supposed to do with Molly then?….wait, are you trying to set up Sherlock and Molly together?" I laughed at even the possibility, however, IF there was ever any chance for any woman to get at Sherlock, it would be Molly. Outside of Mycroft, she was the one person who could handle him. I had always suspected that he regarded her above any other woman but after Sherrinford, I was sure of it. Sherlock was aware of Molly's adoration for him and he used that to his advantage more times than I care to count but over time he began to feel something for her as well. And if Mycroft was right about his assessment of his brother, then Sherlock wouldn't understand such feelings or what to do with them so he would shove them aside as much as possible. The problem was that Euros had thrust those feelings, in all their power, right in Sherlock's face and toyed with them. And something like that would make him angry. Now he was probably feeling like that lost and confused little boy again. In that case, I owed my friend to help make this right. I owed my friend so much more than that, but this was a good place to start. When I returned to London from Afghanistan, it was Sherlock who saved 
 from being lost and confused; finally, I could return that one favor at least.
Molly's POV
I sat and listened to this woman as she told me about her dealings with Sherlock. Most of it I already knew, but hearing it straight from her...well, I just wanted to take my scalpel to that pretty face of hers for what she had done to him. The more I listened the less it made sense that she would come back now. Occasionally, she would take her mobile out of her clutch and quickly text someone. Finally she come to the part about Sherrinford and why Mycroft had called her.
I silently toyed with my dinner for a few minutes. I didn't want to look this woman in the eyes anymore; I was too overcome by my own mixture of emotions, embarrassment, hatred, jealousy, pity, saddness, etc.
"So," I had to clear by throat before I could continue. "So, exactly why are you doing all of this?" I glanced back at the woman.
She sighed as she thought about her answer. While she thought, I took a drink of my wine. I had lost my appetite about an hour ago listening to her story, but she was right about one thing, I had needed a glass of wine as a bracer. Finally she answered.
"Mycroft believes that it would be better for Sherlock to come to terms with how he is feeling or rather that he even feels at all; a step down from Mount Olympus, you might say." At this she smiled but continued. "But Mycroft also thought that you were too demure to confront Sherlock yourself about what happened but that you might if you had a little encouragement. Mycroft knows his brother as well as he knows himself but you know the state of their relationship. Mycroft wasn't comfortable broaching that subject with either you or Sherlock. So, he wanted to find another female to help you but also someone who knew Sherlock well enough to gauge how to approach him with the problem."
"Problem?" I repeated.
"No offense, mind you. I simply meant that you have to present it to Sherlock as a problem because then, in his mind, he simply must solve it."
I looked away again. It was sounding like I was the bait for the lab rat. More self-consciousness flooded me.
"Honestly, I was thinking of moving away." I admitted. That's all I wanted to do at this point, run away. It was hard enough to look Sherlock in the eyes any normal day because it felt like he looked right through me. Now….it would be intolerable. At times I pretended that he cared for me too, but I knew better. I knew that I knew what happened was not of his own volition. And I knew that he always knew I loved him because he would sometimes play on my regard for him to get access to whatever he wanted around the hospital. Other times it seemed like he barely realized I existed. But never had the words actually been spoken. Now...it would just be so damn awkward. At the very least, in that moment, I had had the good sense to make him say it first before I did. That way, even if I did run away and hide like the coward I was, I would have the memory of his voice saying those words to me. It might drive me mad in the end, but they would be mine.
The woman watched me as she considered the idea of me leaving.
"That may be just the thing to do the trick." She said at last.
Her words pulled me out of my reverie over my pathetic situation. "Sorry?"
She talked quickly now.
"If he heard that you had quit your job the he would surely come around to your house to find out what happened then he would see you packing up to leave the city; that would definitely get his attention. Then you could have it out with him then."
"But why go to all that trouble. I know he doesn't care for me that way."
The woman rolled her eyes at me. "Oh, honey. His preference is obvious."
"What do you mean?" I asked rather too quickly. I was confused.
"Well, aside from the fact that you got him to say something that he probably hasn't even said to his own brother since he was four years old…."
I looked away. I was ready to cry. "I made him say it." I interrupted.
"Can anyone 
Sherlock Holmes say or do anything?" I could hear the teasing in her voice and I could imagine her face. I couldn't make myself look at her, I might have slapped the smile from her lips as I imagined what she was remembering she tried to get Sherlock to do.
"I forced him to say it before I would, so in order to save me, he had to say it." I clarified. I closed my eyes in shame as the tears were dangerously close to breaking out.
"Ask him yourself."
I was still trying to avoid looking directly at the woman. She silently assessed me while waiting for a response. After a few moments she said,
"Darling, look at me."
I quickly glanced up at her and then back to my untouched plate. I needed another distraction. I grabbed my wine glass again. She watched me take a drink, all the while a smile was growing on her face until she looked like she was very near bursting.
"You're embarrassed by how you feel about Sherlock Holmes." She observed in a hushed tone like she was telling a secret. "And even more so by wanting him to return the sentiment."
I nodded.
"I am." I admitted. What would be the point of saying otherwise. Everyone knew it was true and probably had a good laugh at my expense over it.
"Its not a bad thing you know. And I would say you are the greatest person I know of if you could pull off a thing like that. It would be quite an accomplishment to pull one over on Sherlock."
I warmed slightly at her words. I smiled sheepishly still a bit uncomfortable.
"How would I do that?"
"Well, it's just as I said, quit your job and move."
I was taken aback a bit.
"I can't quit just like that and pick up and leave."
"No." She said, the coy smile returning. "But to make Sherlock Holmes believe it, it has to be as real as possible." She paused and took in my astonished face and then added, "Don't worry, we're all going to help you."
"Why?"
"You want to know don't you? Besides, its now or never."
With that she took out her phone and began texting again. I finished off my glass of wine and looked around for a waiter to get a refill; I had a feeling I was going to need it.
In another part of town, Mycroft's silence was disturbed by his phone alert for a text message. It was from Irene Adler. It read: 
Mycroft smiled to himself. So far so good.
"The game is on brother mine. The game is on."
The next day, Mycroft sent Dr. Watson to pay Lestrade a visit and get him into the act. Lestrade wholeheartedly agreed to the plan saying:
"Sherlock and Molly, eh? Yeah, I could see that. So, it takes half of London to pull one over on Sherlock Holmes."
"Well, technically, we aren't pranking Sherlock." Dr. Watson explained. "We are just organizing circumstances in order for them to…."
Lestrade raised his eyebrows at Watson.
Watson grinned sheepishly. "Nevermind."
"Right." Lestrade said. And they both laughed.
Lestrade then stood up from his desk in his private office.
"So, I'm to come to the flat around 2 o'clock and say that Molly quit the hospital and hasn't been seen since."
"Right." Watson agreed.
"Anything else?"
"Mycroft phoned the hospital and spoke with her superintendent there and told them that Molly was involved in one of Sherlock's cases and in danger, therefore, if anyone came asking for her that they were to say she had quit her job."
"But everybody there knows Sherlock, so why would they lie to him about something that he is supposedly in on."
"Well, Mycroft said that most likely Sherlock would go straight to Molly's house to try to stop her from leaving but that he wanted that base covered just in case. In all likelihood, Sherlock would just call the hospital to confirm the story. There isn't really any other information he could get there than that."
Lestrade nodded his head as he thought that through.
"Once Sherlock leaves the flat, Mycroft wants us to come to his place."
Lestrade looked at Dr. Watson with a questioning look.
"Not follow Sherlock?"
"No. He said he had his own way of doing that."
"Ok." Lestrade said slowly. "Until tomorrow then."
"Right. Tomorrow."
Dr. Watson left the police station. When he was outside on the sidewalk he stopped long enough to take out his phone and send a text. It was to Mycroft and it read: 
.
Molly's POV
I was a bundle of nerves. I knew Sherlock would probably be here soon. Greg had called to tell me that Sherlock had grabbed his coat and raced out of his flat like he was after a criminal when he told Sherlock about me "quitting" my job at the hospital and no one had seen me in 36 hours. I wasn't sure if he would go to the hospital first or just come here.
I thought I was seriously overdressed to be supposedly packing as well. The woman had insisted that I needed to wear something besides my usual lounging clothes. But this...this carribbean blue dress she picked out was a bit much. I had to admit that when I looked in the mirror it looked great...but I still thought it was too much. I had my hair in a messy bun out of the way.
I was pacing around the kitchen just finishing another bottle of ale when I heard a scramble on my front porch and a moment later a hurried knock on the door.
"Molly?" Sherlock called out. "Molly, are you there?" He banged on the door again, this time harder and louder.
It was too late to back out of it now, so I went to answer the door. When I got to the door, I could see Sherlock's sillouette on the curtain. I took a deep breath to try and calm myself before I faced him. Then slowly I opened the door.
He was already starting to speak when I turned the knob on the door.
"Molly, what in god's name are you…."
When the door was opened his eyes focused on me and automatically began making observations. His eyes widened slightly when he got a sweeping good look at me.
"Sherlock." I said as casually as I could manage. "What are you doing here?"
He didn't say a word. He was still trying to see what he could read from me. Suddenly his eyes cut away from me and narrowed on the boxes scattered everywhere and the empty shelves. Mycroft and his helpers had certainly been through in making it look real. I figured it would take several days just to get everything back to rights. But if this went well, it would be worth it.
Sherlock pushed past me and stormed into my living room. He turned in circles taking everything in.
"What's going on here?"
I half-laughed.
"That's a pretty silly question from the great Sherlock Holmes. I should think that you could figure that one out for yourself." I didn't know if it was the adrenaline or the alcohol making me so brave but I was glad of it.
He stalked back to me and grabbed me by the shoulders, his eyes boring into mine searching for answers.
"Yes, I can see what you are doing, Molly. What I want to know is why?" He demanded.
Well at least he wasn't glad I was leaving. But I couldn't tell what he was exactly. It didn't help that he was staring at me so intensely. I never could think straight when he did that.
"You know why." I whispered as I stared back. I wanted to remember him looking at me that way forever.
"No." He finally decided in a low voice. "No." He repeated louder as he turned on his heels and headed to my bedroom. In a few moments I heard him throwing stuff out of boxes. I quickly followed him in there.
"Sherlock!" I exclaimed as I watched him toss stuff about. "What are you doing?"
"No!" He repeated
"No what?
"You're not leaving. You can't leave."
"Why not?"
He stopped throwing stuff and looked at me. Both of his hands were full of books and papers and things that were going to be his next balls. His brow furrowed in confusion.
"Don't you know?" He smiled but it faded quickly. "I need you to be here."
I willed that to be true. But I felt like I was all too replaceable with him. Anyone at the hospital could, and probably would, give him whatever he wanted. He didn't need me there.
"No more games, Sherlock." I said sadly. "I've got a lot of things to do before I go." I could feel the tears threatening again.
I turned and walked out of the room and into the living room. I leaned on my hands on the back of the loveseat and sighed as a few tears spilled onto my cheeks. I couldn't hold them back anymore. I brushed them away angrily. I was half tempted to just walk out the front door and never look back. But I knew I wouldn't. This wasn't going the way I thought it would. But with Sherlock, things are never how you expect them to be.
In the other room I heard Sherlock set the stuff in his hands down and slowly walk into the living room.
"You were never a game to me, Molly." He spoke slowly and earnestly but I didn't dare look at him yet.
I closed my eyes and sighed again. Now or never I reminded myself. I didn't turn around as I began so I could only imagine Sherlock's face.
"I was going to come by your flat before I left. You know, after I got everything in order….well….there's one question that I wanted answered before I went away and only the greatest mind in the country could answer it."
"What question?"
There was heartbreak in his voice and my resolve faltered at the sound.
I turned to face him now and leaned against the back of the loveseat for support. He was still standing just inside the door. His hands were shoved inside his overcoat pockets and he was watching me with a sad expression on his face.
"Did you really mean it?"
His breathing momentarily caught. He studied me for a long moment...considering.
"I always mean what I say."
Well, it wasn't an outright no anyway.
"But if you had to save someone's life, you would do anything wouldn't you...even lie."
He cocked his head to the side and inhaled a long breath. "Maybe so.'' His eyes were teasing now. "But you have always been able to tell when I was lying."
I tried to smile back at him but it was only half-hearted so I looked away embarrassed.
"Molly." He said after a moment. All humor was gone from his voice so I looked back at him and he was now looking at the floor. He was struggling to formulate his words.
"Molly….there is something I need to tell you." The pain was back as he was remembering what he wanted to explain.
I braced myself fearing rejection. "Ok." I said, unsure.
He turned towards the kitchen and slowly walked into the room as he spoke.
"Moriarty once told the that he wanted to rip my heart out and burn me. In the moment I took it for what it was, a metaphor. But since then...having to fake my death and making everyone believe that I was gone all because of him. It hurt everyone I'm close to. So, in either scenario, he accomplished what he wanted; either my closest friends would be killed and I would be left to grieve the failure and loss or I had to die and they would grieve me. I didn't really think anyone would grieve so much for me. Either way it was supposed to be a losing situation for me."
I could see the raw emotion and anger rising up in Sherlock. He was usually so guarded, so in control, but now, as he was lost in the memories, he was almost choking out the words. He came to stand at the very spot I was standing in when he called me from Sherrinford. I wasn't sure he realized that fact until I saw him gingerly rest his hand where the phone had been when he had called. Then he made a fist and hit the counter in the same spot. It made me jump a bit. I wanted to comfort him somehow but was unsure how to go about it so I just stood there waiting. Finally, after a few deep breaths, he continued.
"Then, what he and my sister had planned went much deeper. Euros kept going on about 'emotional context.' They wanted to hurt me worse by forcing me to destroy my own world and watch it burn before they killed me too. Losing a case is one thing, but when it involves someone you are close to then it becomes a personal battle. Another no win situation, lose the case and everyone involved...my friends….or lose myself."
He looked down at his hand which he had spread out and put palm down on the same spot.
"I'm sorry it had to include you."
"I'm not." I immediately said.
He never stopped looking at his hand on the counter. He seemed so angry.
"Don't you understand? I could have gotten you killed."
I looked down at his hand then back to his face.
"I deal with death everyday, Sherlock. Its nothing new to me. But I could have felt a pain worse than death."
"What pain?"
He sounded in pain himself...and defeated.
"You could have been lying." I waited a few tense moments. "Did you mean it?"
He never moved but softly said, "Yes."
I hadn't realized I was holding my breath until my lungs were ready to burst. When he said 'yes' it felt like everything would burst. My hands flew to my mouth. I couldn't believe my ears. I hurried around he counter and threw myself at him. He quickly turned towards me and caught me in his arms. On impulse, before I could give myself the chance to talk myself out of it, I wrapped my arms around his neck and pulled myself up to him and kissed him. To my surprise, he didn't push me away as I expected him to. He actually deepened the kiss. I curled my fingers into his long, dark locks. They were so soft.
It seemed like an eternity but it wasn't long enough. I had to end the kiss to breath. I rested my forehead on his chest . I let out a small laugh of disbelief. Sherlock stroked my back a couple of times with his hand but didn't say anything for several minutes, just held me. I was quite content to stay there in his arms.
"Molly?" He finally said, his voice was rough.
"Yes?" I breathed. I was enjoying the scent of his cologne.
"I'm scared, Molly." He admitted.
My whole body tensed at his words. I looked up at him, searching his eyes. He was serious.
"Why?" I was beginning to get scared too.
He looked up at the ceiling. "I can't be who I am without my anchors; John, Lestrade, occasionally Mycroft….." He looked back at me. "And you. You don't know how many times and in how many different ways you and John have saved me."
I blushed at his words.
"We are all here for you, Sherlock. I'm here for you...always…..anything you need….whatever you want. We need you just as much." I wondered if I was making any sense.
He genuinely smiled as he looked at me, but then he looked into the living room and glared at the boxes once again.
"Where will you go?" He asked, a touch of sadness returned.
Now I smiled up at him. The whole thing was so unbelievable.
"Don't worry." I assured him. I reached up with my left hand and touched his cheek. "I won't go anywhere."
His eyes softened and he leaned down and kissed just below my right ear.
"I love you Molly Hooper." He whispered as he lingered there.
I shivered and I could feel him smile at his effect on me.
"I love you too, Sherlock."
He stood back up straight and held me by the shoulders now at arms length. I missed his chest already. He seemed to have returned to his normal self. His broad smile warmed my insides.
"Time to get back to the London underworld and see what kind of trouble I can get into now."
I smiled back at him. I wanted another kiss but I wasn't going to push it so I just nodded. If things were ever going to go anywhere they would take time. I was ok with that. It wasn't the rejection I had feared and anything concerning Sherlock was peculiar. He could be such a bastard one minute and a purring kitten that you couldn't help but love the next. Just part of the charm of Sherlock Holmes.
He nodded at me and let me go and strode out of the kitchen. Presently I heard the door open and close signifying his departure. I just stood in the kitchen half laughing and half crying.
As Sherlock strode down the sidewalk back towards his flat he smiled to himself. He didn't like to steal unless he had to but this time, he simply wanted a souvenir of the occasion.
Everything was back to rights in his world. Everything had been worked out with his friends...he had even had a long, heartfelt conversation with Mycroft after Sherrinford. Now he felt like things could get back to normal. He could go back to being Sherlock Holmes.
He put his hands in his pockets against the breezy afternoon and fingered the object that he had taken from Molly's apartment. No, he didn't like to steal, but he would make an exception this time. And he knew right where he would keep it….on the mantel, next to the skull. It would be a good reminder to him….a reminder to be human.
Epilogue
Dr Watson's POV
I had to hurry to beat Sherlock home. But when he returned I could tell that he was bright and cheerful. As soon as he came in the door he went to the mantel and put something next to the skull. He stood admiring it for a minute then casually took off his coat and absentmindedly threw it to the side not caring where it landed and went to the kitchen. I heard him making what sounded like tea. I looked back to the mantel. The object was a small figurine version of DaVinci's human.
"What on earth is that, Holmes?" I asked.
Sherlock answered from the kitchen without stopping what he was doing.
"As a medical man, that should be obvious, Watson."
I rolled my eyes. Yeah, same old Holmes.
"Yes. I know what it is, I mean, why is it here?"
"Why not?" came the terse reply. Then in a moment he added, "He needed a companion."
"Oh, right." I said. I picked up the newspaper that I had in my lap and began reading again. I lowered my voice to where I didn't think he could hear me and said, "It definitely suits you."
From the kitchen, Sherlock barely heard Watson's comment but it made him smile as he poured the hot water into the two cups. Every day Sherlock would try to live up to what his friends thought of him and he would guard them fiercely.
Sherlock had just brought in the tea cups, set Watson's on the table beside his chair and just sat down with his own in his easy chair when his phone went off. It was a text. He pulled it out of his pocket and checked it. It was from Lestrade. All it said was, 
"Ummm…..John…?" Sherlock began.
Watson sighed, set down the paper beside the mug and stood up.
"Where are we going to now?" he asked.
Sherlock smiled at his friend….his best friend. "Lets go." He said quickly, grabbing his discarded overcoat and out the door they went.
Sherlock Holmes was….well, Sherlock Holmes. Its hard to really describe him. He was the rue of every criminal in the country and the prize of every bounty hunter; but it was Sherlock that was the true hunter. To some he was a lifesaver. To others the was the object of their demise. Even the criminal class had a certain respect for him. He was cold and calculating to clients. But to a select few who he allowed to really see him, he was more than that….so, so much more.
