Sherlock cringed and bit back a curse as he felt the liquid seep like acid into his skin. "Be gentle," he growled through his teeth.
"It's alright," John reassured him, wiping the cuts and gashes across his perfect cheeks with a cotton ball. "Just let me clean you up."
"I don't see why," Sherlock grumbled, looking up angrily into John's calm ocean eyes and trying not to smile. He knew he was being stubborn, and John's relaxed, caring attitude almost made him feel guilty.
"Because, Sherlock, I don't want you to get infected," he told him sternly. "Now, just stay still." He reached into his medical bag, found a small box, opened it so that Sherlock's curious gaze couldn't see inside.
He was sat on the sofa, bag by his side, Sherlock casually laid across his lap, head propped up on a pillow. It was the only way Watson had been able to get him not to move while being able to clean his friend up. Dammit, John worried about him – about where he'd been, how he'd been hurt, and who by, but he didn't dare ask, knowing Sherlock would only mumble something in his incomprehensible code of crime.
"Wh-what are you doing?" Sherlock questioned, trying to sit up but finding John's hand on his forehead keeping him down, if not by force than by the simple touch itself.
"Trust me," John whispered, eyes focused on his kit, "I'm a doctor."
He sighed as John trailed his fingers down the detective's cheek lovingly. "My doctor," Sherlock purred.
John smiled then frowned as he held up the hypodermic needle, fiddled around with an antitoxin bottle until he could dip the metal in and draw some out. He studied it meticulously, carefully, and then looked to Sherlock. He looked so peaceful at that moment, so trusting, the way his eyes were loosely shut and a soft smile on his lips. The army doctor didn't want to hurt him – ever. But this was for the best.
He licked his lip uncomfortably and cleared his throat. Sherlock's eyes opened quickly and he stared at the needle with a little glare.
"It's alright," John told him, moving towards his arm where the veins were rich and full. "Just… don't… move…"
On the contrary the pedantic man lurched and clambered to the floor, jolted to his feet and took a step back. "No," he hissed. "No injections."
John groaned and threw his head back. "Sherlock, I'm just trying to take care of you…"
"I can take care of myself," he bit back.
John raised his eyebrows, a little hurt, and his voice showing it. "Oh you really think so?"
Sherlock shut his eyes and mumbled something inaudible.
"What was that?"
"No."
"No what?"
"I need you, John."
His heart brimming with adoration John signalled the sofa and his lap once more. Cautiously, nervously, he paced forward, then shook his head.
"I can't. Not after the addiction," Sherlock admitted.
Shutting his eyes, John felt such… pity, really. Thank God he was here to prevent Sherlock from overdosing – or even consuming – any more. He stood up definitely, needle in his grasp, and moved towards his partner. The taller man edged back, hands out in front of him in rejection, until he hit the mantelpiece when he turned and fled to the kitchen. John ran after him, grabbed his sleeve, pulled him into control, pressing him back to the table, pinning him between his legs. He stared him down.
Sherlock whined. He had one chance to get out of this, and damn it all if he wasn't going to try. He rubbed his leg along John's, keeping their hips close, ever-so-slightly smirking. Watson flinched. It was a cruel, cruel trick that he was trying.
"Sh-Sherlock," he stammered, eyelids fluttering as he felt himself begin to tense. He shut his eyes tight to bring himself out of it. He wasn't going to be seduced – not right now, anyway. "No."
"No?" Sherlock breathed in his ear, grazing his teeth on his earlobe.
John's knees went weak and he leaned into Sherlock more, his mind drifting into that vulnerable state of arousal. "Yes," he managed at last. Then he jerked back. "No, Sherlock. No."
He looked crestfallen but did not give up, wrapping his hands around John's thighs, feeling him twitch.
Two can play at this game, John decided weakly, and pulled himself closer to his lover, nuzzling into his neck, syringe still tight in his grip and finding Sherlock's skin. He jabbed it in quickly, heard Sherlock hiss, and plunged the fluid into him. Sherlock cringed as the metal slipped into him and the liquid filled his body, trickling through his veins. He grabbed John's arm and held it.
John frantically looked dead into his eyes.
"Trust me," he demanded.
Sherlock felt betrayed a little, but at the same time he was thankful. "I do," he replied solidly, and kissed John's forehead.
Grinning and relieved that Sherlock hadn't taken it badly he carefully removed the needle and ran his thumb over the penetration hole. He felt a little blood on his thumb but nothing to worry about.
"Th-thank you," Sherlock forced himself to say.
John beamed at him. "No, thank you for letting me."
Sherlock raised his eyebrows. "There's something you could let me do…" John gasped as Sherlock grabbed his rear hard and couldn't stop himself flinching. "…Doctor."
"Oh God yes," John managed quietly, and he dropped the needle and heard it shatter to the ground.
And he didn't give a damn.
