 This is the first story that I have written in YEARS! The first time I ever attempted to write a story was in the Inuyasha Fandom. I was 15 years old and it was only one thousand words. I am older and wiser now... I have been in love with the sherolly ship for over a year now! I wanted to try to write something I would have loved to read. This is not Beta'd at all... if anyone wants to help a girl out? Taking applications lol
Hopefully this hits all the feels! This will only be another chapter or two. Starting small coming into the fandom as an author. This will be posted on FFN & AO3 (once they send my invitation!)
I do not own a thing...
MHMHMHMHMHMHMHMHMHMHMHMHMHMH
The phone flew across the room smashing into the wall. Heartbreaking sobs could be heard throughout the whole apartment. Thoughts ran through her mind. "
Molly took some deep breaths trying to slow down her sobs as she sank to the floor of the kitchen. She stared at the mess blankly with tears rolling down her face. What felt like hours but only minutes before Toby peeked his head out from the living room.
"Meow"
"Oh Toby" sobbed Molly "I didn't mean to scary you baby"
Toby slowly walked past the broken mobile and rubbed his face against her leg. "Meow"
Molly pulled Toby into her arms burying her face within his soft fur. "I don't know what to do Toby but I…I…I just" Another sob ripped from her mouth. "
Steeling herself against her heart breaking, Molly closed her eyes and took a deep breath. "
Her eyes open as she slowly starts to stand allowing Toby to jump from her arms. Molly barely glances at the mess as she walks to the bedroom. Plopping down on the bed, she surveys the room which has evidence of Sherlock everywhere. His backup suit in her closet, his robe thrown over her chair, and his package of cigs on her nightstand. "
 Molly thinks sadly as she wipes away the tears that haven't stopped. Laying her head down on the pillows, she takes another deep breath to calm down. "
Her eyes caught the postcard on the mirror and an idea started to form. "
Molly sat up and quickly started to get a bag together for her trip. It took her less than 20 minutes to throw all the basics within her bag and pack Toby into the carrier.
Before she could walk out her front door, Molly froze. "
She chuckled ironically. "To be able to get away from him Toby, we need to be like him and sneak out here without anyone seeing us." Molly put everything down and ran back to her room to grab a jumper with a hood. 
The door creaked open quietly, she took a second to see if any of her neighbors were about before reaching back to grab both bags. Molly moved quickly to the back staircase that led to the alley behind the building.
Molly slowly trekked down the back alleyways trying to avoid all the cameras on the main streets. It only took 10 minutes to follow the path that was shown to her so many months ago. Before leaving the alleyways, she pulled up the hood and quickly went down the stairs into the tube. She knew she couldn't use her oyster card, so she went up and purchased a ticket. Keeping her head down, Molly went to the track that would take her to Waterloo so she could transfer to Euston station before purchasing a burner phone. As the doors opened to Euston, she rushed over to the stands that sold cell phones. "
"How can I help you today, luv?" The vendor asked. "Do you need a new phone case or charging port?" Making sure her back was to the camera in the station, Molly quietly asked for one burner phone and two different sim cards.
"That'll be 60 pounds" He said as he placed the items within a bag. "Thank you! Have a good day." She gave the money and kept her face turned away from the camera while walking over to purchase tickets for the journey to Newport.
"
 Molly opened the phone and put in the first sim card. From memory, she entered Derek's phone number and waited as it rang.
"Hello?"
"Hi Derek? It's Molly."
A chuckle sounded through the phone, "Molls, it's so good to hear your voice! How are you doing?"
The tension slowly started to seep out at the sound of Derek's deep voice. "Derek, it is good to hear your voice. I've missed you…"Molly breathed out a deep sigh.
"Molly, what's wrong? I can tell something has happened. What do you need? You know my door is always open!" Tears slowly started to trickle down Molly's face. 
"Oh Derek, everything is wrong…I would like to take you up on that offer and come spend some time there in Little Mills."
"Of course, Molls! When do you think you will be coming down? I will get everything ready for you!" Movement could be heard through the phone. "I just need to give the guest room some fresh sheets and loads of wine for us to drown our sorrow."
"That sounds perfect Derek…I will be pulling into Newport within 2 hours. I don't remember your home address off the top of my head…Would you be able to...?"
"Of course! I will be there to pick you up" Molly could hear the smile in Derek's voice.
"I'll see you then. Thank you for picking up and being there for me." Molly squeezed her eyes shut and took a deep breath.
"…Molly, you know I will always be here for you. I will see you soon."
The call ended as the train was pulling up to Oxford Station. "
 She slowly walked to the track transfer to Paddington and boarded the train. Molly peeked in the carrier, "Doing okay, Toby?" Hearing a disgruntled meow from within. A small smile touched her lips. "I know, I know. You hate it in there. We will be there soon."
She pulled out the sim card used to call Derek and placed in the unused card. As the phone rebooted, Molly took another deep breath. She had so much vacation time built up over the past seven years from all the overtime she did to help "The Work". Mike shouldn't have a problem with her taking some time away. Opening a browser and typing in her email account information, she started to compose a quick message to Mike.
She pressed send and quickly powered down the burner phone to transfer sim cards. Quiet giggles escaped her lips. 
Just as the thought left her, tears started to fill her eyes as she blocked her mouth to stop the sounds of her sobbing. Molly placed her head down on Toby's carrier and closed her eyes. "
As she fell asleep, the tears continued to slowly go down her face.
SHSHSHSHSHSHSHSHSHSHSHSHSHSHSHSH
The dark Musgrave was flooded with red and blue lights flashing over and over. Sherlock stood quietly in the shock of what has transpired in the last few hours. "Sherlock?" John's voice broke his trance.
"I know, John. I know." His baritone voice sounded almost silently against the noise of Scotland Yard's officers moving around inspecting Musgrave and collecting Eurus. They watched as Mycroft's helicopter touched down a few feet away. Lestrade greeted Mycroft and walked over to where they were standing being checked out by paramedics.
"I'll have officers grab Mrs. Hudson and Rosie to move them into the safe house until we have everything checked out." Lestrade said as he pulled out to his phone to send out the order. Mycroft nodded and looked at Sherlock.
"Their locations are being watched via CCTVs until the Met are able to collect everyone. They will be transfer over to the safe house to be protected together until we are sure it is all clear" Mycroft said before Sherlock could question the slowness of the Met. "John, my assistant is already in route to Rosie."
"Thank you, Mycroft." John sighed. "I can't wait to hold my daughter"
"And Molly Hooper?" Sherlock questioned. "Why isn't anyone on their way to remove the bombs Eurus may have placed?" His voice became louder as the panic climbed. 
"The bomb squad is on the way now, Sherlock." Greg said as he walked back from his call. "We need to head over to the Yard so all of you can answer some questions on the dead bodies found at Sherrington"
"That will have to wait, Lestrade. I need to make sure that Eurus is placed back at the highest security. Sherlock and John will join you at the Yard." Mycroft said as he turned to walk back to the helicopter holding his sister.
Sherlock and John followed Lestrade to his car to get all the questions over with as quickly as possible. As they settled in for the long drive, Sherlock went to his mind palace. 
MHMHMHMHMHMHMHMHMHMHMH
The loud overhead voice "Welcome to Paddington Station", woke Molly up from her light sleep. "We are here, Toby." She gathered her two bags and made sure her hood was still covering most of her face. She waited for the doors to open then followed the crowds out the doors into the station. After clearing the station doors, Molly looked around for Derek before pulling out her phone to send a message of her arrival.
"I'm here by door 2 - Mx" A ping sounded to her left. Molly turned and saw Derek smiling at the phone typing away. The phone in her hand pinged as she opened her mouth to call out to him.
"I'm the handsome one next to the red car. – DS" A laugh escaped Molly's lips as she quickly walked over to him.
"Derek!"
"Molly Polly! Is that you? Still gorgeous as always!" Derek grabbed her into a big swinging hug and placed a smacking kiss to Molly's cheek. Giggles erupted from her as he swung her around.
"It is so good to see you!" He placed her down and reached to grab her bag. "Let's get on the road so we can start relaxing with some wine soon!" Derek peeked into the carrier. "Tobias is here as well? Oh Molly, something big must be going on if you brought him all the way over here with you." He put his arms around Molly's shoulders and led the way over to his car.
"Yeah, it's a bit of a long story. I promise I will tell you everything once we are settled at your place." Molly said with a watery smile. He squeezed her shoulder before opening the door for her.
"You can tell me in your own time Molly. Since Tobias is here that means I get to keep you for a while so I can wait to hear your story." He placed Toby on her lap and closed the door.
"I really appreciate you, Derek. I really needed to be away and around people who love and care for me." Molly rested her head against the headrest and took a deep breath. "Truly, thank you for this."
A smile spread across Derek's face as he started up the car and pulled out onto the road. "The pleasure is all mine, Molly. You know how much I care for you." Soft music filled the car as they started towards Little Mills. "We are about 20 minutes away from my place with all the traffic. Why don't you just rest your eyes for a while? You know we will be up until the early morning just catching up! I took tomorrow off so we can drink as much as we want and sleep in!"
Molly smiled softly at him before letting out a quiet, "Okay, I will." She rested her head against the window to enjoy the scenery of the ride before succumbing to dreamless sleep. It feel like mere seconds before Molly woke briefly as Derek carried her into the house and placed her onto the bed. "Derek?" She mumbled.
"Hush. You are tired Molls. Just get some sleep." Derek placed a soft kiss on her forehead and quietly closed the door to the room. Toby jumped onto the bed and curled up to Molly's stomach. Toby let out a soft meow as he settled in for the night. A smile touched Molly's lip as all the tension left her body as she fell back to sleep.
SHSHSHSHSHSHSHSHSHSHSHSHSHSHSHSH
Lestrade pulled up to the safe house and turned off the car. "Here we are. Get some sleep. It has been a rough night for the both of you." He gave a grim smile and gestured towards the dark house.
"Thank you, Greg." Sherlock said as he exited the car and moved to the house.
"What? Oh, you're welcome Sherlock." Greg slowly pulled away to get back to the Yard to finish all the paperwork this night caused.
John followed sluggishly, the night finally catching up to him. "I think I am going to wake Rosie. I need to hold my daughter. Tonight was…something else."
"John, thank you." Sherlock glanced back as he opened the door to the building. "I wouldn't have been able to get through this without…"
John slapped Sherlock's back and hurried past him to go toward the staircase where a light was on and beckoning. "No worries mate. Get some rest. Everyone is safe. Mrs. Hudson, Rosie, and Molly are all safe. We will process everything else tomorrow"
Sherlock nodded and walked into one of the empty rooms and just fell face forward into the bed. He was running on empty, and he still had more years to process within his Mind Palace. 
Sherlock let out a deep sigh as he fell to sleep with his dreams filled with forgotten memories.
MHMHMHMHMHMHMMHMHMHMH
Daylight lighted the room a soft glow as Molly slowly opened her eyes to take in the room. Stretching like a cat against the bedspread before sitting up in the bed. A large yawn escaped Molly's lips as she reached her arms above her head to lengthen her spine in a deeper stretch. Letting her arms fall back to the bed, she glanced at the clock on the nightstand. "
Spotting her bag at the end of the bed, Molly leisurely moved to grab the necessities of her morning routine. As she walked towards the door of the room, she doubled back to grab a change of clothes. "
Reaching the bathroom, Molly hurried through her routine so she could make sure to beat Derek to the kitchen. Just a short ten minutes later, she was descending the stairs to the kitchen. Toby ran between her legs as she entered the kitchen and let out a string of cries. "I know, baby. I just need to find the tuna cans. I'll be with you in a mo." Molly whispered down to Toby as she started opening the cabinets. After satisfying him, she quickly pulled out the ingredients for a full English breakfast. "
 Molly thought as she opened the can of beans.
Halfway through she heard the stairs creaking as Derek came down. "Well, I could definitely get used to this Molls! A gorgeous woman in my kitchen making some delicious food from the smells. What would make this moment perfect is if there was coffee brewing." His deep voice sounded in the room as he entered.
A light snort left Molly's mouth as she looked over her shoulder at him. "This must be a perfect moment then. Coffee just finished brewing" Quickly returning to the food on the stove, she blushed. 
Molly turned off the burner under the beans and flipped the bacon. "Food will be ready in a little bit" she said, trying to faint nonchalance.
"Marry me?" Derek asked while pouring his coffee. "I'll go get Gran's wedding ring right now if you say yes!" He placed his chin against Molly's shoulder and gave her a quick hug from behind. "We will be married by noon!"
Shivers went up her spine as his chest was pressed against her back. "
Forced laughter erupted from Molly as she lightly hip checked Derek away from her. "Hmmm…I'll think about it. Get the plates. Everything is done." With a large smile on his face, Derek held the plates as she dished breakfast up.
"Take all the time you need. I'll be here waiting until you say yes. How else will I get this type of service every morning!" He smirked as he placed both dishes on the table and sat to dig into the meal. When silence was his response, Derek caught a glimpse of Molly. 
Wanting to take her mind off whatever triggered her low mood. "So, I saw how tiny the bag you brought was. Maybe our day should start with some shopping? Then lunch at this amazing café down the way?"
Molly frowned. "I don't know if I am up to shopping just yet. I should have more than enough clothes for a while." Silence filled the room. "I'm sorry Derek. I am not being the best guest" she sighed. Tears gradually started to fill her eyes. "I…I am trying…but my heart hurts so much." Molly's face buried into her hands trying to stop the tears from spilling over while taking deep breaths. Derek lifted her from the chair and placed her on his lap. Rocking back and forth, he started stroking her hair.
"Molly, just let it all out. I am here for you. I got you. Just let it go." Derek hushed. "Whatever you need. I got you. We don't need to do anything right now." Sobs wracked Molly's body as she let it all out. All the hurt she received over the years from Sherlock. All the rude comments, the being the one who matter most but never the one kept in the loop, the being wanted only when something was needed. Over an hour went by and they were in the same position. Molly's cries quieted down to small sniffles. Pulling herself away from Derek's chest, she kept her eyes down. "Thank you…I really needed to get it out."
Whipping her face, she stood up from his lap. "You deserve to know what is going on. I just can't right now. I need to move on. I came here to get away from everything back in London. I need to reset and make some decisions before I even think of returning back to him…I mean London." Placing the empty plates into the sink, Molly turned back to Derek. "I am only going to allow myself today for wallowing. Tomorrow I'll go do the shopping you mentioned while you are at work. I think I am going to go back to bed." Leaning down to give him a kiss on his cheek, she whispered. "Thank you, Derek." Straightening up, she walked back upstairs and closed the guest room door behind her.
Derek let out a frustrating sigh as he stood up to tidy up the mess. "
Turning off the water, he made up his mind. "
Jogging up the stairs, he knocked on Molly's door. "Molls, I am going to give you the space you need. I am going to head into work. Just give me a call if you need me and I'll come back." He waited till an acknowledgement was given before walking into his bedroom to get ready.
SHSHSHSHSHSHSHSHSHSHSH
Sounds of Rosie beyond the door rouses Sherlock, with bleary eyes, he glances over to the clock in the room.
Surveying the room, he took in all the details. A garment bag hanging on the back of the door, a cell phone on the dresser and the ensuite open with a toiletry bag with his initials. Pulling himself from the bed, he slowly walked to the ensuite to refresh. An hour later, Sherlock emerged from the room moving towards the sounds of his goddaughter. John was trying to feed Rosie, while Mycroft was silently sitting at the table next to two steaming cups of coffee.
"About time you woke, brother mine" Mycroft said as he looked up from his laptop. "We have things to discuss."
Sherlock grunted, as he grabbed one of the mugs. "Not yet. Where is Mrs. Hudson?"
"It has been deemed safe. She has left the premises." Mycroft sighed, "A car delivered her to her sisters. Brother mine, we have much to discuss regarding the fallout of Eurus. Our parents are on route to London."
"Not YET, Mycroft." Sherlock glared, "Where is Molly? Did a car send her somewhere?" John and Mycroft shared a look.
"She was never here, Sherlock. The bomb squad cleared her house and deemed it safe last night" Mycroft stood. "We need to discuss Eurus. I will be at the Diogenes Club until our parents arrive. I expect you to head over as soon as they arrive." Mycroft nodded to John before leaving the safe house.
"Why didn't Molly come here?" Sherlock questioned John. "She should have been forced to be here like everyone else."
"Sherlock...you know yesterday was very hard on her. She needs her space. Why don't you head over there to tell her what happened. She deserves to know." John lifted Rosie from her chair and placed her in front of the television. "While you do that, Rosie and I will head home."
Sherlock nodded, "You are right, John. I will give her some space before I try to explain everything that is Eurus." A ping sounded. Glancing down to the phone, "It seems my parents are only 20 minutes out from Diogenes. A car will take you home." Sherlock gently stroked Rosie's head as he walked past her towards the door. "I will be stopping at Bakers Street to see what has survived before meeting you there tonight."
"Alright, Mate. Just don't leave Molly waiting too long." John rushed out as the door slammed closed. "Git… I hope he heard me." Looking down at his daughter, "Rose of the world, it is time to go home. Are you ready, my sweet girl? Maybe you can talk some sense into your godfather." Rosie giggled as John picked her up. "Dadadadaa"
MHMHMHMHMHMHMHMHMHMH
Almost a week has gone by since Molly first arrived at Little Mills. She still couldn't believe she was able to leave London without Sherlock finding her and dragging her back. "
 A self-deprecating smile graced Molly's face. "
 Molly frowned. "Stop it! This isn't helping at all, Molly." Pushing the depressing thoughts down, she looked at the laundry on the bed. "I need to put these clothes away and stop thinking about him!" Molly grabbed her earbuds and placed the shuffle on. As she started to arrange which clothes to hang, the song Treat Me Like Somebody by an American artist Tink came on. Instead of skipping the sad song, she decided to sing the song that was everything she felt.
"
Derek could hear Molly's soft voice as he walked past her room. Once he realized she was singing, it stopped him in his tracks. You could feel her sorrow in the words. Derek moved to the door and watched her as she hung her clothes in the closet.
"
Molly continued to sing unaware that she was being watched. This song was everything that she needed to let out. Sherlock treats her like she was nothing when she has only been there for him at the drop of a hat. She deserved somebody to treat her like somebody.
"
Molly let out a shriek once she realized that she had an audience and pulled out her earbuds. "I didn't realize you were watching me!" Her face started to flush.
"Don't stop on my account Molly. You have such a beautiful voice." Derek said in awe. "I could listen to you sing all day." He leaned against the door with a grin as her face continued to become a deeper red.
Feeling her face burn, Molly placed the earbuds down. "I think that's all the music I can handle today! I am just about done here...Do you want to go out and do something fun?"
Derek chuckled, "I was having fun listening to your beautiful voice. But if needs must, let's go explore the town. You haven't really left my house since you got here! There is so much to explore!" Derek reached out his hand for Molly to grab. "I know just the place for us to visit!" A smile broke across Molly's face.
"Okay! Can you give me a few minutes to send a message to my boss? I want to extend my time here so I can really enjoy this bit of vacation!" Derek nodded and headed down the stairs. Molly pulled out the forgotten sim card and rebooted her phone. Opening her email, she saw Mike had responded to her request.
A happy sigh left Molly as she started to compose the email. 
She turned off the phone and switched the sim cards. Grabbing her favorite jumper before walking down the stairs to Derek.
"All set?" Derek asked, looking up from his phone. At Molly's nod, he extended his hand out towards the door. "After you, gorgeous" Together they headed out the door.
SHSHSHSHSHSHSHSHSHSHSH
Sherlock spent the last week handling the aftermath of Eurus. Discussing the new security measures needed to prevent this from ever happening again. He told her that he was going to bring her home but it will never be physical. Eurus was just too dangerous even if he wanted to save her. With Eurus in a nonverbal catatonic state, her only outlet being their musical duets. Sherlock had a chasm of pain to deal with. His family, now whole, was so deeply broken only time would tell if the Holmes will be able to climb out of the abyss. Every moment was spent dealing with his family, the reconstruction of Bakers Street and his mind palace. The phone call always creeped in during any second of silence. Sherlock sent her a quick message a few days after the event to let her know he was fixing his family and there was a reason for the pain he caused. Furthermore he would find time for her soon once the dust finally settled to explain everything. Peculiarly Molly never responded to the message. That was a moot point since he was on his way to Bart's with a case. She'll no doubt apologize for ignoring him.
Sherlock threw the doors open as he walked through and without looking up from his phone started speaking. "Molly, I need the body that just came in! If it is what I think it is, this will be an exciting 8!" It took less than a second for Sherlock to realize she wasn't in the room. Eyes honing in on the intern standing by the cabinet. "Molly Hooper? Where is she?" He asked impatiently.
John came through the doors with an exasperated sigh, "Blast it, Sherlock. The body can wait for the few seconds it takes to hold the elevator open!" Sherlock didn't even acknowledge John and restated his question.
"Molly Hooper. Where is she?"
The intern eyes jumped between Sherlock and John before he answered. "Not here."
Sherlock glared, "Evidently, idiot. Is she in the morgue or in her office?" Deciding that the porn addict intern would be no help, Sherlock turned quickly and stormed towards Stamford's office to get the answers he needed. A sigh left John as he went to follow Sherlock on the case of the missing pathologist.
As Sherlock turned the corner, he saw Stamford going through the morgue doors. "Molly's supposed to be doing the autopsy, Stamford. Where is she?" He said as soon as he cleared the doors.
Mike looked away from the body and let out a sigh. "She took a holiday, Sherlock. Molly won't be back for at least another week based on the email I got a bit ago." Mike gestured over to the pathologist currently attending the autopsy. "You remember Clayton Richards? He will be able to help you with whatever you need."
"I don't want Clark. I need Molly." A frustrated sigh left Sherlock. "I just will have to go get her then." Before he could turn to leave, Lestrade and John walked through the doors.
"Ah, perfect! Sherlock, can you take a look at this one mate?" Lestrade said, rubbing his face. "We think this is a robbery gone wrong."
Sherlock stepped closer to the slab and took a look at the man's groomed body before stepping back. "This is barely a 3, Graham. The wife and brother-in-law did the deed. Revenge against his affairs." He pushed open the doors and without a backwards glance said, "Coming John?" He strode towards the elevators as his exasperation built. He had a pathologist to bring back to work. 
John barely made it between the doors before the elevator closed.
"Blood hell, Sherlock! What's the rush? You already solved Greg's case." John stared at Sherlock waiting for a response. When he didn't say a word, John closed his eyes with a sigh. "Where are we going now then?"
Sherlock stormed past the doors without giving an answer as soon as they opened and quickly navigated to the curb to halt a cab. Once they were seated, he gave Molly's address to the driver and pulled out his phone to message Mycroft on Molly's current status.
"Molly's address? Why are we going there Sherlock? Bollocks! Don't tell me that you are going to make that poor girl come back to work? You already solved the case!" John glared at Sherlock and continued his tyrant. "Didn't we agree to give her space to process what happened?"
"A week should have been more than sufficient. Molly knows that this shouldn't come in between what we do. It's important. We are just going over there to make sure she is done with ignoring me."
A snort left John, "Don't you mean ignoring the work?" Sherlock glanced at John before looking down to Mycroft's response.
Sherlock handed the cabbie money before leaving the cab and entering Molly's building. John followed with a confused face, "You have keys to her flat?" Sherlock continued up the stairs not sparing him a look.
"Really John. Your memory is atrocious. I have keys to all of my bolt holds." He noticed that Molly's door wasn't actually locked as he turned the key in the hole. For the first time since he heard of Molly's holiday, Sherlock was worried that something else was going on. It wasn't like her to not have her door locked and bolted.
"Bloody hell...was Molly abducted and we didn't realize Sherlock?!" John frantically asked. "I'll call Greg to get the whole Met over here. We need to find her!" John pulled out his phone and started to dial.
"As always John. You see but do not observe." Sherlock stepped further into Molly's house, eyes tracing everything and cataloging it. "If Molly was abducted, we would have been accosted by her cat as soon as we cleared the door. The thing is always looking for food. Do you see him anywhere John?" Running his hand through his hair, Sherlock looked at John. "Molly clearly was upset by the phone call. You can see this based on her shattered mobile on the kitchen floor. She wasn't even here when the bomb squad showed up to make sure everything was clear. Molly would have never been able to leave this mess alone." Pulling out his phone, Sherlock sent another text to Mycroft.
"Mycroft is useless." Sherlock slowly walked through the flat trying to find clues on where Molly Hooper could have possibly gone. To help narrow it down, he sent another message to Mycroft.
"The games is afoot." Sherlock smirked as he walked past John to the door. "John, go be with my goddaughter. I have some tracking to do." John followed after him.
"Sherlock, this isn't a game. Molly will come back when she is ready." Sherlock stopped and looked at John with amusement.
"But this is a game, Watson. Why else would she leave using an escape route to purposely avoid cameras." Sherlock walked towards the back staircase.
"Stamford said she will be back within a week. Just leave it be mate." John yelled after Sherlock not following him. "Sod it. You'll just have to deal with an angry Molly when you interrupt her holiday." He grumbled as he jogged down the front stairway to catch a cab home.
Sherlock continued on ignoring John's last words as he ran down the stairs. 
Sherlock smirked as he walked through the back door into the alleyway.
 Did you like it? Review and let me know your thoughts! For all those wondering how Derek looks... I am picturing Damon Salvatore from Vampire Diaries. He is dreamy!
