: I've been in the Sherlock fandom for over a year, and I really wanted to share my stories with the wonderful people I met. The barrier, however, has been the language. My native idiom is Portuguese.
But now, I am happy to present, Molly Hooper's Best Worst Day, narrating what happened before and after that phone call from Sherlock on episode 'The Final Problem'. At least from my perspective.
I would like to thank LLAlves (Instagram: llalves_), English translator, proofreader, writer and streamer, who very willingly read my translation and improved it a lot!
After these few necessary explanations and well-deserved thanks, let's get to the story! Please, don't forget to leave a comment after reading! This motivates me a lot!
*
The day had not yet dawned when Molly Hooper awoke to the meowing of Toby lying by the foot of her bed. It was not a common behaviour for the cat. Besides always being silent, he was used to jumping onto the furniture to sleep next to her.
However, what made her really worried were the sounds he was making, which indicated that the little animal was suffering.
"What is it, sweetheart?" she asked, throwing the blanket aside and bending down to pick up the kitty in her lap.
Toby extended his claws and scratched her arm. Even though he did not mean to hurt her, his behaviour was totally out of the ordinary.
Molly examined the animal's body for any sign of injury and when she did not find any evidence that would justify that strange behaviour, she checked his belongings and retrace his last steps.
The search stopped when she saw liquid faeces and some little red spots in his litter box. Molly's heart raced.
"No, no, no..." She had to control herself to hold back the tears. It was important to remain rational so she could save her pet.
Without delay, she placed a blanket inside the pet carrier and put Toby on it before closing the door. Then she changed clothes — without thinking about what to wear —, grabbed her purse and left the house with the cat. Molly worried about nothing but him, for her companion of so many years deserved that attention.
The guardian drove as fast as she could to the veterinary clinic where she used to take him for vaccinations and check-ups. She called the vet ahead of time to let him know of her emergency. Veterinarian Noah Barnett could tell by Molly's expression that something serious was happening there. He had never seen her so desperate in all her years taking care of Toby.
"Have you ever found him like this before?" the man not much older than her asked as he took the cat out of the pet carrier and held him in his arms. He was wearing white clothes and a white lab coat.
Toby was becoming increasingly apathetic.
"Actually, it was Toby who asked me for help." Molly wiped away one of the tears streaming down her face.
There was no longer any reason to hold back the tears as the two of them walked into the clinic.
"I'll examine him and find out what's going on." Noah opened one half of the double door that separated the reception from the offices with one hand. "I'd rather you wait here," he said due to Molly's altered state. "I'll take good care of him," he promised.
"I know you will." She tried to smile, but the tears that welled up in her eyes watered her smile.
"You can make yourself comfortable." He showed the padded chairs near the reception desk, still empty because it was so early in the morning. Only the professionals on duty were there.
Molly practically threw herself down on a chair and left the pet carrier on the floor next to her feet. The thought that Toby might not survive made her heart squeeze. Living without the constant company of her pet was a reality she hoped she didn't have to face anytime soon.
She sighed and thought about texting Sherlock. After all, whenever 
 needed help, he came to her, but she eventually gave up. She tried to think positive: everything would be alright and soon she would leave the clinic with Toby in her arms, properly medicated.
While waiting for the vet to return, she decided she had to let Mike Stamford know that she'd probably be late for work. She called him and explained she was having a family emergency and would make up the missed time, if possible, that same day.
As she expected, he was very attentive and told her not to worry, because Douglas Roach, the doctor who had just completed his postgraduate degree in pathology and was working in the laboratory under her supervision, would be in charge of signing and dispatching the reports during her absence.
Only when she hung up the phone, Molly realised Mike deserved an explanation about what 'family emergency' she was referring to. She hoped he loved animals as much as she did and understood the situation.
"Molly," called the vet returning to the reception.
They felt comfortable enough to use their first names due to how long they had known each other.
"How is Toby?" she asked, standing up and walking towards him.
"He'll be fine," he reassured her. "But what happened was serious."
"And what was that?"
"Poisoning," the vet declared. "And as soon as I get the results of blood and stool tests, I'll be able to tell with certainty what substance was used. From my experience, however, I'd venture to say it was arsenic."
The revelation shocked Molly, as she was very careful with any chemicals in the house. She always left the cleaning ones in well-locked cupboards and never used poisons to eliminate pests. She nodded in disagreement every question Noah asked, as they tried to find out how the cat was poisoned.
"Anyway, you'd better find out. Toby ingested an enormous amount of poison." He crossed his arms over his chest. "If you hadn't brought him here so quickly, I'm not sure if I could have done anything."
Molly closed her eyes and tried to control her breathing. There was no reason to think the worst now that everything seemed to go well.
"I'll find out what happened," she stated.
"Ask your friend, Sherlock Holmes, for help." Noah smiled a friendly smile.
He liked the stories Molly told him about the detective as much as what he read in John Watson's blog, regrettably not updated for some time.
"I'm sure he can find out what happened," added the man.
"I'll talk to him," Molly smiled back. "Can I see Toby before I go?"
"Of course," replied the vet. She then followed him into the room where the cat was, ensconced inside a single cubicle.
She felt her heart squeeze when she saw the feline lying on a blue blanket with an IV tube connected to one of his legs. Noah opened the cage and Molly approached him, slowing moving her hand towards him to touch his silky fur.
"How long will he need to stay here?" she asked in a whisper.
"At least twenty-four hours," the vet replied. "I want to make sure he has eliminated all the poison and that his organs are healthy."
"It'll be the best thing for him," Molly smiled shyly. "Can I leave his blanket here? So he doesn't feel too far from home."
"Actually, I think it's better not." Noah scratched his head. "Since you don't know how he came in contact with the poison, I suggest you wash all the things Toby uses most."
"It's a reasonable measure," Molly agreed. "But I'm sure he didn't get contaminated at home."
"Is there a chance he could have snuck out for a walk?"
"No. I always make sure I locked all the doors and windows," she said.
"Maybe the clever one found some way out that you don't know about," the vet smiled.
"Maybe. I'll ask Sherlock to check this too." She smiled brightly this time. "Now I have to go. I'll be late for work," she lamented.
"I hope you won't have any problems," Noah wished.
"I won't." She continued stroking Toby. "I already told my supervisor, and he understood."
"That's good," the man smiled.
"Can I come back to see Toby later?"
"Of course! I'm sure he'll be much better," replied the vet with confidence.
Molly finally cheered up.
"See you later, sweetheart," she said to the cat.
Toby showed little reaction, but Molly was calmer, trusting that this would be a passing thing.
After saying goodbye to the vet and picking up the pet carrier at the reception, which was now noisier with the arrival of the other employees, the pathologist left the clinic and headed for St. Bartholomew's Hospital.
Thinking she'd stop by the canteen as soon as possible for breakfast — since she'd left home on an empty stomach — she made her way to the changing room after leaving her car in its reserved spot in the car park. She would just check on how things were going in the lab before satisfying her newfound appetite.
"Good morning, Douglas!" she greeted as soon as she entered. "Is everything fine here?"
"Molly! How nice that you've arrived!" The doctor was wide-eyed. "I made a mistake! A big one!"
"What did you do?" asked the worried pathologist.
"I changed the test results of two patients…" he revealed all at once.
"Which doctors?" she asked, already afraid of the answer.
"Dr Bolton and Dr Myers," he grimaced as he revealed.
"Not Doctor Myers..." she breathed out loud. "He has already quarrelled with half the hospital staff and hasn't even been working with us for more than six months..." Molly covered her face with one hand. "Have you told them?"
"I was waiting for you to arrive." Douglas swallowed.
Molly had to control her anger at the fact that the doctor literally wanted to hide a mistake he had made while in charge of the sector. Soon after, however, the pathologist calmed down and knew she was the boss and should be responsible for everything that happened there. The unexpected incident with her cat was not her co-worker's fault.
Using the hospital's internal line, Molly called Dr Bolton, who, despite being in attendance, spoke to her briefly due to the urgent request.
They agreed that in a few minutes the pathologist would exchange the test results. Her fear now was about Dr Myers.
The surgeon was with a patient and he didn't answer the phone, even with the urgent request. The pathologist prayed that the switched result was not from the person the doctor was attending to. She rushed to his office with the patient's profile in hand.
"Doctor Myers is with a patient," informed the secretary in her boring tone of voice.
"I know Dorothy." Molly was trying to remain calm. "But it's urgent. It's about a switched..." the doctor's voice interrupted her before she could continue.
"You look great! Totally dispensable treatment with these results!" The tall man said, his muscles rippling out of the sleeves of his lab coat. He seemed pleased as he shook the patient's hand at the door of his office.
"That's great, Doctor Myers! Thank you very much for everything!" replied the smiling elderly man. "They told me you're the best, and they were right!"
"I'm just competent and I pay attention to my work," said the doctor, looking straight at Molly.
The pathologist feared that the wrong result was from him. From the indirect hint, however, she knew that Myers was already aware of the situation and wouldn't be that irresponsible to the point of informing a wrong result to the patient.
"Doctor Myers," she called as the old man left. "I think there's been a mistake..."
"Yes, Miss Hooper! It has happened! And I'm going to talk to Stamford about it." The doctor entered the office and then left, a white envelope in his hands. "It was only a matter of time."
He held out his hand with the paper to her, but stepped back before the pathologist could take it.
"I don't know what they were thinking when they gave you the promotion as head of the department. There are much more capable people down there. Even your assistant would be much more responsible than you."
"Humans make mistakes and I'm here to correct it!" She stepped towards Myers and took the envelope from him. "The results of your patient will be in your hands shortly!" she said firmly.
Without allowing time for further conversation, she turned and walked out of the office.
"I'll file a formal complaint against you with the hospital ombudsman," she heard him say as she walked away.
Unlike the reception she'd got with the first surgeon, Doctor Bolton treated her with great cordiality. With a smile on his face, the doctor, who was nearing retirement, admitted that he had seen mistakes like that happen.
He emphasised how serious the consequences could be and stressed the need to avoid them, but added with a sweet smile that human error does happen.
Molly delivered the right results and returned to Doctor Myers' office, leaving the correct data with his secretary, as she didn't want another clash. The situation, however, deserved to be treated seriously. So, she went to Mike Stamford's office to tell him all about it so that the supervisor wouldn't be the last one to be informed.
"Calm down, Molly." The man had his friendly smile on his face. "Doctor Myers may be a great professional, but we are aware of his inability to deal with hospital staff. If his every complaint led to a resignation, I think we would have to close for lack of staff."
The comment brought a smile to the face of the pathologist who was sitting in a chair facing the supervisor's desk.
"But it was a serious mistake, Mike," she retorted.
"And it wasn't you who made it, although you took the blame," he stressed. "If we compare the forms signed by their secretaries when they received the results with the time you arrived at the hospital today, they'll prove that you weren't even here when it happened."
Molly realized he was right and knew that the hospital board wouldn't fire her for a mistake she hadn't made.
"I had to take the blame, anyway. I'm in charge of the lab, not Douglas," she reaffirmed. "Even more because he was in this position precisely because of me."
"It was your commitment and responsibility that earned you your promotion, Molly," Mike declared, receiving a sincere smile from the pathologist in response. "And what made you late, anyway? It must have been something serious."
She hesitated. Although she didn't know how the supervisor would react, he had already proved his friendship. Even if he didn't get the same appreciation for animals, he would understand her situation.
"My cat, Toby," she began. "Someone poisoned him."
"What do you mean, Molly? And how is he?"
As she noticed a genuine concern in Mike's eyes, she revealed the entire story since she had woken up that morning with her cat's calling for help, and was grateful for his empathy as he listened to her.
The pathologist felt more eased up after the conversation, so she went back to the lab and kept to her schedule. She ignored her lunch break, making only a quick snack in the cafeteria to avoid a completely empty stomach, so she could leave early to visit Toby at the clinic.
"Hi sweetie," she said, smiling as soon as the cubicle door, where he was, opened.
The kitten immediately recognized her voice and started rubbing his head against her hand, thanking her for the affection. Molly was happy with her friend's visible improvement, but her heart felt a squeeze when she had to leave Toby behind.
She had never felt so alone. The emptiness generated by Toby's absence turned her warm home into a strange place.
A tear ran down her cheek at these thoughts, but she quickly wiped it away, accepting that there was no reason to stay that way. She now needed to find out how the cat got contaminated in order to never let it happen again.
After changing clothes — she felt much more comfortable in her colourful striped jumper and black trousers —, she collected Toby's belongings scattered around the house. Clothes and blankets went into the washing machine. She emptied and cleaned the litter box, food pot and water pot, and the toys went into the kitchen sink.
She did not mind washing them right there, as she did not believe that contamination could have occurred through them, but preferred to err on the side of caution, by washing everything.
However, before she could turn on the tap, her mobile phone rang. Molly reached the device on the edge of the counter. After checking who was calling, she answered it.
"Hi, Meena," she said with little excitement, as she knew what was the reason for the call.
Molly went out with her friend almost every week, sometimes in a group or just the two of them, but she didn't feel like going to a café, a pub or any other place that day.
When she said that, Meena asked if something had happened and Molly told her how her day had been until that moment.
"I'll come over and stay with you," she offered.
"Thanks, but you don't have to," she answered. "I think I'll have some tea and try to get some sleep after this busy day."
"Tomorrow I'll call you to see how you and Toby are doing."
"All right," Molly smiled as she answered. "Have fun!"
"I will," assured her friend on the other side of the phone line. "But we'll miss you."
The two said goodbye and, inspired by her own idea, Molly started to prepare some tea. All she'd eaten was a snack from the hospital canteen, but she didn't have enough appetite to eat a full meal.
After filling the electric kettle with water and plugging it in, Molly turned the tap on again to wash Toby's toys.
Even though she was using a neutral, odourless soap, she was careful to rinse everything thoroughly for fear that he would get sick once again from coming into contact with substances unsuitable for cats.
That thought brought back the vet's recollection about the possibility that Toby had gone for a walk during the night. Even though she was sure she always locked everything before going to bed, Molly checked.
As she'd expected, all the windows were locked, but she felt a sharp tightness in her chest when a wind blew in through the back door. There was a gap wide enough for Toby to go through it.
Her eyes grew moist again as the certainty that she had been responsible for what happened dominated her thoughts. Angry at what she had done, she closed the door abruptly before locking it.
Molly walked back to the kitchen sink and propped both elbows on its edge as she held her hair with her hands near the back of her head. She looked at Toby's toys, waiting them to be dry and put away.
"How could you let something like this happen?" she thought. An oversight that nearly cost her most faithful companion his life.
The ringing of her mobile phone interrupted her thoughts. The device had been on the edge of the countertop, that divided the kitchen from the next room, since she'd ended the call with Meena.
She imagined it might be her friend again, but it was Sherlock's name being displayed on the screen. In no mood to help him at all, she ignored it and turned her attention back to the preparation of the tea.
However, Molly found it odd that it was a call instead of a message, something more in his temper. She hoped it wasn't anything really urgent.
When the phone rang for the second time, however, she thought it might be a serious situation and answered it. She dried her damp hands from the fruit she was slicing and picked up the phone.
"Hello, Sherlock. Is this urgent, 'cause I'm not having a good day."
Of all the times she'd got her heart broken by him, this was by far the cruellest for Molly. It was uncomfortable listening to his request. Even with Sherlock assuring her it wasn't an experiment, she wasn't sure the detective was telling the truth.
Hearing him say that he didn't know why she couldn't say those three words to him after so long in their relationship made it sound like Sherlock didn't really care about her, as he'd stated before, or that he actually has limited skills to observe some situations.
"Well, if it's true, just say it anyway," Sherlock insisted.
Molly giggled, unable to believe what was happening, and challenged him to say the same to her, as if it were sincere, before she complied with his request. He hesitated, but accepted the challenge and said it not just once, but twice.
The first time, a small smile lit up her face, imagining what it would be like to have heard those words spontaneously coming from him. Then came the second one, in a totally different and softer tone of voice than the first.
The unsolicited repetition made Molly's heart leap as she noticed the intonation very similar to the one Sherlock used when he managed to come to a conclusion after reasoning about something.
"Molly?" His voice tone made it clear how anxious he was.
She looked at the phone screen, almost unsure if she could do what he wanted, although she was increasingly convinced that something serious was going on, which unfortunately didn't make the situation any less painful.
"Molly, please," he asked once again.
After taking a deep breath, the three words finally came out of her mouth in a much softer way than she imagined they would sound, and the call ended abruptly afterwards.
Molly closed her eyes and felt the tears streaming down her face. She placed the phone back on the countertop and covered her mouth with both hands to stifle the sobs that came next.
She was furious about the way he treated her, but very confused, unable to understand why Sherlock had done something like that to her.
In all the times he had hurt her, Molly could sense that it wasn't intentional, but an inability on his part to deal with feelings. She didn't want to believe that her friend had simply made her a specimen in one of his experiments.
And the second statement sounded so sincere that it hurt to think about the possibility of it being real, because Molly was sure that Sherlock wouldn't be able to match the feeling she had for him. Of course, she didn't blame him for that.
She believed that love was a pure and giving feeling; it didn't demand reward. But deep in her heart, she felt she would be happy if there were any. While the thoughts were running through her mind, the tears continued to stream down her face.
: Did you have any idea that Molly's "bad day" had been this bad? Whoever has lost a pet knows how painful it is. And what do you think about Molly's attitude, taking the blame for what happened at the hospital, because she is the real responsible for the department? She definitely didn't need the call she got from Sherlock, but trust the ability of our favourite consulting detective. I guarantee that was the last time he let Molly Hooper down.
