He wasn't sure why he'd taken the job. He was still riding the high of his last job - good food, warm clothes, a solid roof over his head supported by equally solid four walls...and women, all the women he wanted, grateful women who were soft and warm and willing, his favorite kind.
Actually, he did know why he'd taken the job - his git of a partner was bored. "Bored, John!" he'd roared just the night before, interrupting his supposed best friend out of a comfortable, post-coital sleep next to the little brunette - what was her name? Janice? Janey? - he'd taken to bed with him.
And so, grumbling under his breath as said git of a partner gabbled on about a job protecting a couple of travelers on their way to the Stamford Hostelry outside the ruins of old London, he'd agreed to take on another job weeks sooner than he would have liked.
"Christ, Sherlock," he groused as they headed to the location where they'd been told to meet the interested party, "couldn't you have asked them to wait a couple of days, at least? There was a curvy little Irishwoman I was eyeing for tonight..."
"Janine was only being friendly to you because she wanted me and I turned her down," Sherlock replied briefly.
John halted in his tracks, then shook his head and hurried to catch him up. "Don't care," he grumbled. "Would've shagged her anyway."
Sherlock made no response, simply kept walking with the easy, long-legged pace he always set, the one that made John feel a bit like a hobbit scrambling after an Elf-lord.
Then again, he reminded himself, hadn't the hobbits been the real heroes of those old stories? Wished he could remember more about them, but there wasn't a lot of leisure time left for reading these days, even if you could find books that hadn't been burnt for fuel during the cold winter months.
"Where are we meeting this group, again?" he asked, scanning the ruined remains of the town, alert for the presence of ghouls - both living and undead - as the sun shone dimly through the morning mists.
"Outskirts, west side of town. Anderson vouches for them." He curled his lip, expressing his opinion of Anderson's trustworthiness. Then again, the man had been responsible for the warm welcome the two had received after delivering his family members to him safely
John sighed. Time was that a trip from Brixton to Brighton could be made in a few hours; now it took days of travel over treacherous terrain filled with even more treacherous groups of bandits, ghouls, and desperate, starving people who'd once been good neighbors, good friends, upstanding members of the community.
Like him, and Sherlock. Well, he reconsidered, Sherlock had never been good. A great man, yeah, but good? Not so much. It was only because he hated injustice so much that he hadn't ended up a bandit himself. Wasn't that how Stamford had put it when he'd first introduced them? That Sherlock was a great man, John recalled, and maybe if they were very lucky, someday he'd be a good one
John snorted. Chance would be a fine thing. Not that he had been much better, he had to admit. An ex army soldier and doctor, wandering around the apocalyptic landscape like an escapee from a Mad Max movie, one step above banditry until that chance meeting three years ago. He would never forget that day, when he'd stumbled across his old colleague Mike Stamford, besieged by ghouls, glasses awry on his nose, wielding a cricket bat with a fierceness John would never have imagined him capable of. He'd waded in, helped kill the buggers, and safely escorted Mike to the hostelry that now held his name in honor of the medical services he continued to perform for travelers and residents alike.
Sherlock had been one of those travelers, too restless to settle down in any one place, just like John, and after some initial wariness the two had somehow become friends and partners in bodyguarding, with some local crime solving thrown in as well when Sherlock became bored enough.
Like today, for instance, when they should both be safe and comfortable in warm beds with warm women - well, warm whatever Sherlock enjoyed snuggling up to since John still had no idea which way that particular wind blew - and food and…
"You're late."
Instantly John raised his rifle to his shoulder, his entire attention focused on the woman who stepped out from behind the half-burnt remains of what used to be a chemist's shop. She was petite, with wisps of blonde hair straggling from beneath the scarf she wore wound round her head like a modified turban, and blue eyes as cold as chips of ice as she stared down the sights of his weapon - then turned, rather ostentatiously, to look at Sherlock.
"Wrong," he said, matter-of-factly. "You were early for this very reason; in order to surprise us, to assess our watchfulness and competency. Despite Anderson's boasts of how we saved his family, or perhaps because those boasts seemed too good to be true, you wanted to see for yourself. You believe you got the drop on us, because your companion is aiming a rifle at us from the roof of the building directly behind us, but even though John was a fraction of an instant late by responding only after you had called out, I can assure you -" He broke off to bare his teeth in a grin that, to John's surprise, seemed sincere - "I would have put a bullet into you before your friend could pull the trigger, had I felt the need. Which, fortunately for you, I did not."
Then he removed his hand from his pocket and showed the woman, whom John was still covering with his rifle, the modified firearm he wore strapped to his forearm, his finger still resting lightly against the trigger. "I would have shot you," Sherlock continued, "your companion might have shot John - or me, or possibly even you as you are clearly the better shot of the pair of you - and then one of us...John or I, of course, not you...would have shot her."
"Could be a him," the woman countered, sounding not at all fazed. If anything, she sounded pleased.
"If it was a him and if he was any good, you wouldn't need us," Sherlock replied with a slight shrug. "Not to be sexist, but in these times two women traveling alone? Dangerous in the extreme. Too tempting a target for bandits or marauders who might otherwise be put off by the perceived strength of your party. I say perceived, of course, because-"
"All right, Sherlock, she gets the point," John snapped out. "So are we taking this job or not? Because if not, Janine might need someone to keep her warm tonight, and I'm happy to take on that particular-"
"Quite." Sherlock sounded sulky - he always sulked when interrupted during one of his spates of verbal show-offmanship - but he continued, "Yes, we're taking the job. Tell your friend she can stand down before John gets even more twitchy than he already is, Miss…?"
"Morstan," the woman replied, glancing up and giving a sharp nod to the unseen woman holding the high ground. John hadn't bothered training his weapon up that way; despite Sherlock's bragging on his behalf he knew he would have been hard put to take down a threat that well concealed. Especially not when the threat to the woman standing directly in front of them would likely prove a deterrent to her (according to Sherlock) less-than-skilled ally.
The sound of movement from the rooftop brought his attention in that direction, and the sight of dark head peering over the parapet brought his finger back to the trigger as he swung the rifle in that direction. 'Morstan' gave a sharp whistle, a second signal the two women must have agreed on; the head vanished, the sounds of movement became louder, and a few minutes later - as the three of them contemplated each other in silence - the sound of a door opening once again put him on full alert.
"Stand down, John, we're safe enough," Sherlock said easily as the other woman - just as petite as the first but with brown hair and eyes, nothing remarkable about her at all - joined them. She wore a patched and worn set of green combat fatigues, with a rifle slung over one shoulder and - his eyebrows raised - a Red Cross rucksack over the other.
"You have medical training?" he demanded, gesturing with one hand toward the rucksack. "Or is that just looted?"
She stiffened and glared at him. "Everything is looted these days," she said angrily. "Except no, this isn't - that is, yes, I have medical training. I am - was - a specialist registrar at St. Bart's, thank you very much." She gave a sound very much like a sniff, an old-fashioned gesture of disdain that brought a grin to his face.
Sherlock, he noted, was studying her just as carefully as he had Morstan. "Holmes," he said after a moment.
"Hooper," was her brief reply.
John's eyebrows rose again. "Hooper?" he echoed. "Surely not...Molly Hooper?" All the wariness went out of him and his grin widened. "Mike Stamford talks about you, said he'd hoped you'd be able to join him someday soon. I'm John, John Watson, Captain in the Fifth Northumberland Fusiliers before everything went to shit. Went to med school with Stamford."
"You've seen him?" Molly asked eagerly, stepping forward and accepting his outstretched hand. "How is he? I got his message a few months back, but I couldn't just leave Loughborough, not until…" She bit her lip, looked down.
"Until it was overrun by the walking dead," Sherlock finished crisply. "Unfortunate, but hardly unexpected, Dr. Hooper. How fortunate Miss Morstan was able to get you out before the whole place went up in flames."
"Good timing," Morstan said with a shrug. "And call me Mary. Took me ages to convince her it was a hopeless cause, but she wouldn't go until the last dose of tetracycline had been administered and the last good needle got too blunt to use." Her words could have been cold, dismissive, but the look she bestowed upon her companion - friend, John decided - was warm, and the hand she laid on the other woman's arm was companionable and comforting.
"Yes, yes, we'll have plenty of time for boring backstories while we're on the move," Sherlock interrupted, boredom warring with impatience in his voice. "The only thing I'm interested in knowing right now is if either one of you has any cigarettes...no? Shall we get on with it, then?"
John rolled his eyes. Sherlock and his damned nicotine addiction. He thought he'd kicked that habit when the last of his self-rolled supply ran out a year ago, but apparently not.
Morstan - Mary - nodded in response to Sherlock's last question; Molly gave him an unhappy look, but also nodded after glancing at her friend. More than friends, possibly? John gave a mental shrug. If they were 'together-together' as his primary school mates might have termed it, then at least he'd have the possibility of seeing them kiss or, with luck, even more at some point during the week-long journey they faced.
And if not...Mary was dangerous, that much was obvious, but he'd never been one to back down from a challenge.
With a mental wager as to which outcome he looked forward to most, he followed as Sherlock led them to their supply cache. Time to get back to 'the Work' as his friend termed it, capital letters and all.
