The party was going along at its own pace. It was 11:36 and soon a new year would begin. Sally and Philip were laughing softly in a corner. Mrs. Hudson was passing a tray of biscuits. John was talking with Greg and each showing the other pictures of their children. A few others were floating around engaging in small talk. The champagne was chilling to be used as a toast, putting this year to bed and welcoming the new.
Sherlock Holmes stood in the window, violin in hand and ready to play Auld Lang Syne after the champagne toast. His mind was not in the sitting room of 221b Baker Street. He successfully closed off the chatter in the room and as the snow fell lightly and steadily he allowed his own mind to drift. Their relationship had only gotten stronger over time. They had a lot in common and more and more he felt the lack of her presence when they weren't together. He was at the point that he didn't want to leave her flat after going over some of her post-mortem reports that related to his cases. When they were at Baker Street he didn't want her to leave. The emptiness he felt was palpable when Molly wasn't with him. The nights they didn't say good night were the most peaceful he could remember. They hadn't been together as anything more than friends for long but he knew that their time was right.
His thoughts were disrupted by the cab that pulled up in front of the Baker Street flat. Molly got out of the cab, paid the driver, and entered the building. She ascended the seventeen stairs to the flat and Sherlock met her at the door. He put down his violin, he took her coat, and gave her a gentle kiss. Molly got herself a cup of hot tea. She wouldn't drink anything stronger than a few sips of champagne due to being on call.
Sherlock watched her as she greeted their friends and hugged her when she returned to his side. They looked into each other's eyes and Sherlock knew that his plans were right.
At midnight they toasted the new year and shared kisses and good wishes for the next 12 months. Anderson and Donovan were the first to leave followed closely by the others. Mrs. Hudson said good night and went to her own flat on the ground floor. He and Molly put anything that needed to be refrigerated away, left the rest for the morning, and then sat on the sofa.
At 1 AM, January first Sherlock took the gold band and diamond from his pocket and turned to Molly.
"Molly, we have been getting closer. I have been very reluctant to come here when at your flat and to send you to yours when we are here. I don't think that I have ever been happier and I hope you feel the same."
He held the ring up between his thumb and index finger. "I see no need to live together for long before based on the way I feel and, again, I hope you feel the same. This was my grandmother's ring. It was given to her by my grandfather when he proposed and was given to my father when she passed." He began to get a little nervous, he hoped she didn't notice it. His observation skills were certainly compromised. "It is to go to the first of us Holmes siblings that marries. Mycroft is even more married to the government than I was ever to my work and Eurus is, well, Eurus. You know how I feel about you; I love you more than we both will ever know. Will you do me another honor? Will you marry me? I won't always be attentive. I may sometimes appear not to care but I will try to be both attentive and demonstrative about my love for you. So, will you? Would you become my wife and allow me to be your husband?"
Molly couldn't speak so she smiled. Nodded and hugged her now fiance. He then placed the ring on her finger. They spoke for a while and fell asleep looking forward to the years to come.
