He had dreaded this day. Ever since an extremely high Sherlock had walked into his life, he'd been doing everything he could to keep this from happening. He hadn't tried hard enough.
He can't help but think he could have stopped it. Maybe if he hadn't gone along with Donivan and Anderson. Not that he had enjoyed it in the least bit.
~SH~
The first time Greg met Sherlock, the detective was high. High was probably an overstatement. It was a clear and intentional overdose. Sherlock had sauntered onto the crime scene inherently mumbling. It had taken the young man five minutes to solve the crime that the Yard had spent two weeks working on.
Before anyone could respond, Sherlock collapsed into a coma, where he spent three days in ICU.
That was also Lestrade's first run-in with Mycroft.
~SH~
He was walking home and passing through an alley.
"Greggory Lestrade." The voice said from behind him. The detective froze, turning around.
A man in a black suit, carrying an umbrella gave him a look over.
"Can I help you?" Greg stared him down.
"Yes," the man said calmly. "I am Mycroft Holmes. I believe it is you who found my brother... Incapacitated."
The detective nodded slowly. "His medical records didn't mention-"
"Yes," he said prolonging the 's', "in my line of work it is quite dangerous to be listed as family."
"And what would that line be? Because if he is indeed your brother, then you should know he's in a drug coma. An overdose. And intentional overdose."
"I'm aware." The elder Holmes snapped.
Greg crossed his arms, "Are you his dealer?"
The man let off a sharp laugh before running his hands down his suit as if smoothing out his emotions. "I occupy a minor position in the British government."
"Minor?"
"Let us just say, I have many enemies. I do not wish to place Sherlock in any unnecessary danger. He is quite capable of getting into trouble of his own accord."
"What exactly do you want?" Greg was tired of the word games. He just wanted to go home.
"I want you to watch my brother."
"What?" He was surprised at that. Watch him?
"I will pay you a large sum to simply send me updates on his location and wellbeing."
"You want me to spy on him?"
"Yes. To put it simply."
Lestrade shook his head, "Find someone else to do your spying, mate."
Mycroft smiled slightly, "Very well."
The man with the umbrella turned and got into a black car that had just appeared.
Greg wouldn't spy, but now he was more determined than ever to watch over the young detective.
~SH~
Lestrade found that he truly cared for Sherlock like he was a son. It didn't take long for him to figure out that the young man had just as many problems as he had answers.
~SH~
"Sherlock?" Greg had received a text from Mycroft to check on Sherlock. He had known the Holmes brothers for several months now. It was now clear that Mycroft only cared for his brother, even if his methods were a bit invasive.
"Sherlock? Come on, answer the door."
The lack of answer was somewhere between annoying and disturbing.
Sighing, he grabbed the key Mycroft had given him and inserted it into the lock.
Pushing the door open, he called out again. "Sherlock?"
The young detective was lying unconscious on the floor. He did what he could while calling an ambulance
That was the second time Sherlock had nearly died by his own hand. Lestrade decided he would insure it never happened again.
~SH~
He'd thought John would help. He 
helped. He'd been clean before that but John had kept him even more on the straight and narrow.
He thought they had succeeded. He thought that they had kept Sherlock alive.
Even after everything, the phone call was still a shock. It was John and he was crying.
~SH~
"Hello?"
"Greg?"
"Where are you? Why are you calling?"
"Sherlock-"
"John, what happen, where's Sherlock?"
"He-he's dead." Greg stood up, making his way out of his office.
"What?"
"Moriarty, he, he-"
"Did Moriarty kill Sherlock?
"No, he-he k-killed him-himself."
"What? John, tell me what happened."
"He-he," A broken sob interrupted him, "he jumped off St. Barts."
"Suicide?" Everyone in the office cubicle turned to look at him.
"Yes," Came the choked reply.
The phone fell from his hand as his eyes widened.
"Sir?" Donivan touched his arm. Lestrade jerked away.
She reached down and picked up the DI's phone then handed it back to him.
"What's wrong?" She asked.
He paused a moment, barely breathing. "Sh-Sherlock," he cleared his voice, "Sherlock is dead."
Now everyone was looking at him. Sherlock might not have many friends, but more people respected him than he ever realized.
"How-?" Donivan started.
"Suicide." Greg's voice was thick with tears.
"Suic-, are you saying the Freak killed himself?"
"That's typically what suicide is," he snapped.
"But-"
"If you want to help, meet me at Bart's," he growled, pushing past Sally and the rest of the officers in his way, "That's where…" He paused unable to articulate what had happened there. "I'll be." He finished lamely.
If it was going to happen he'd always thought it would be the drugs. Sherlock had always seemed more disturbed or foolish than outright suicidal. This… this was no accident. This wasn't him chasing a high and missing. This was Sherlock intentionally ending his life the quickest and most effective way possible.
He'd spent years trying to keep Sherlock alive but he'd failed. He'd taken the wrong side in the fight and now would have to suffer the consequences.
The bright young man who had solved hundreds of cases and saved the department thousands of dollars was dead. The only one who could outsmart Moriarty was dead. The one who kept Mycroft sane was dead. The freak was dead. His 
was dead. The great Sherlock Holmes had killed himself.
Sherlock was dead.
