It had been a particularly irritating day. Donovan was in a higher and mighter mood today and she was getting on my nerves, which were already raw from this case. Every lead seemed to be a dead end. This wasn't the first case since his death that I wished I could have brought Sherlock in on. But what was the use of dwelling on that.
So I snuck into the other room for a cigarette. Honestly, this whole quitting thing wasn't working. Not that I had to sneak around, everyone knew I still smoked, especially when I was stressed. So it wasn't a surprise when someone spoke from the darkness; it wasn't like they were catching me at anything, but it was the voice. Nobody could fake that voice; it was HIS voice.
"Those things will kill you.". He said.
My mind was racing. How in the hell...
Anderson had been right for the first and last time since I've known him.
"You bastard.". I told him.
"It was time to come back.". He said as he stepped from the shadows. He was grinning like everything, enjoying his joke. "You've been letting things slide, Graham."
"Greg." I countered automatically.
"Greg.". He repeated with an apologetic look. I knew better. Sherlock always said the wrong name just to be even more annoying than he already was.
He came to stand right in front of me. I was tempted to reach out and touch him to make sure he was real. Hell, I was too glad to see him. It was a bit embarrassing but I threw my arms around his neck and hugged him tight.
I wasn't just imagining it. It was him. It was Sherlock Holmes in the flesh.
I let go of him and backed up to look at him again. There was a strange mixture of pleasure and chagrin on his face. I laughed at the sight...at the whole thing. It was so unbelievable. Only Sherlock would be able to fake his death so well as to fool us all for two years.
"Let's go for a drink and you can explain yourself.".
He nodded his consent then he got a devilish grin on his face.
"What?". I asked.
"Do you want to call Sally?"
I caught the direction of his thoughts and grinned along with him like we were two school boys.
"Donovan!". I ordered. "Get in here...now."
Sherlock moved towards the door so he would be the first thing she saw when she came into the room.
Presently she opened the large door and started to step in. As she did so, Donovan began to look around and her eyes found Sherlock. She immediately froze in place and her eyes went wide. I think she even stopped breathing for a few seconds.
"Oh my god!". Sally exclaimed and ran back out, dropping the clipboard she had been carrying.
Sherlock and I both busted out laughing.
"Come on." I said, gesturing to the door on the opposite side of the room that led outside. "Let's get out of here.". Once outside we quickly hailed a cab.
At the moment I didn't care if I would be in trouble later for leaving a crime scene but, to me, this was more important.
