 Please note, readers, this one-shot fits into my Journey universe. I have included a little backstory for those who may not be familiar with my chronological timeline (which can be found on my profile). Regular readers will already be aware of the backstory, so this is really just to allow new readers a bit of understanding of the storyline.
I am providing a trigger warning for more sensitive readers because of mentions of suicidal thoughts.
This particular one-shot is a companion piece to my 
 story and takes place during chapter 24 of that story. I decided to make this a stand-alone one-shot, because I feel the issue of depression and understanding how it affects people, even Christians, is too important to bury inside another story that I know receives little attention because of its strong Christian themes. Maybe non-regular readers will give this one-shot a chance, maybe not, but I want it to be available to all.
Over the past year or two, watching the struggle of a loved one, I have come to understand that depression is a medical condition that can affect anyone and can lead to thoughts of suicide, even amongst Christians.
If you suffer from this condition, please seek professional help for it and don't try to deal with it yourself.
Molly was standing near the entrance of the church hall with her fifteen-month-old daughter, Victoria. Participants were arriving for rehearsal of the play based on the life of Jesus, which Molly had written. In a month, they would be performing it at the Hackney Theatre in London.
Molly usually directed rehearsals, but on this occasion, she felt she needed to take some time to speak with her friend, Lori Lestrade.
Earlier that day, Greg had told Sherlock that Lori had been feeling down lately. Lori had volunteered days earlier to come to rehearsal to take care of Victoria in the nursery while her husband practised with the rest of the cast. He was performing the role of the disciple, Peter.
Molly and Sherlock had talked earlier about Lori's situation. They had agreed that, rather than just leave Victoria in the nursery with Lori, Molly would offer a listening ear if Lori needed someone to talk to. At this point in rehearsals, Molly's directing was not really required as the cast knew what they needed to do, and she usually just prompted people who might forget a line. This didn't happen often. Sherlock was playing the role of Jesus which had most of the lines, and he had remarkable memorisation skills which rarely required a prompt.
Greg and Lori appeared at the entrance. "Look, it's Auntie Lori and Uncle Greg," said Molly to Victoria.
She gave Greg a wave as he headed past her towards Sherlock. Holding Victoria on her right hip, Molly tucked her arm through Lori's and they started walking towards the main church building. She could see Lori didn't seem her usual, perky self and ventured, "How are you feeling? Greg told Sherlock you've not been doing the best."
Lori glanced at her. "I've been better." Then she changed the subject. "How about you? Didn't you have your scan yesterday?"
Molly unlocked the side door to the church with the key Pastor Briggs had kindly provided her and turned on the light just inside the door to illuminate the passage.
"It went really well," she responded, walking towards the nursery. "We found out we're having another girl."
Lori gave Molly a genuine smile. "That's wonderful. I can't believe our scan is coming up in a couple weeks. Greg and I are so excited about it."
Inside the nursery, Molly set Victoria down and closed the door.
Lori looked surprised. "Aren't you going to rehearsal?"
"Nope." Molly's voice was firm. "Sherlock and I talked about it, and we agreed he can run the rehearsal without me for now. I think it is more important that you know I'm here for you if you need to talk."
She took a box of big blocks from one of the open shelves as she spoke, and set them on the floor in front of Victoria to play with. Victoria was able to stack several blocks on top of one another now, and she enjoyed doing so, then kicking the "tower" down.
When Molly looked around at Lori, it was to see her friend had tears in her eyes. "Oh, Molly," she said, as Molly took a seat beside her in the rocking chair provided for the nursery, "you have no idea how much this means to me. It's so hard being on the other side of the world from my family when I've been feeling this way."
Molly leaned over to pat her friend's hand. "I'm here for you. Tell me what's going on. Is it anything to do with the baby? It's normal to have worries and fears about your pregnancy, especially when your hormones are all over the place."
Lori sighed. "I wish it were that simple." She took a deep breath. "I think what I've been feeling lately is because I went off my meds."
Molly felt surprised at this revelation and wondered what sort of medication Lori was referring to, but she merely said, "I imagine a lot of people have to go off various medications when they are pregnant if there is potential risk to the baby."
Lori gave her a wry smile. "Well, I've been finding it really tough ever since I went off the antidepressants I've been using for years."
 thought Molly, 
.
"I must admit, I'm not entirely familiar with antidepressants," she said honestly. "What led to you feeling you needed them?" She hoped the question wouldn't offend Lori, but she felt decidedly unequipped to counsel her friend when she didn't know enough about it.
Lori shifted slightly in her chair to face Molly more directly. "It's hard to pinpoint when I became aware that I had a problem with depression. At first, I think I was in denial about it, because I felt that as a Christian, I had no excuse for feeling that way. I know my parents had a hard time understanding why I would feel really depressed about something they considered rather trivial. They tried to tell me I was overreacting to certain situations, and that I should just pray and cling to Jesus when I felt so low."
Molly nodded sympathetically. She had the feeling she would probably react the same way. Jesus was always her lifeline when she felt troubled. In the years when she had felt unrequited love for Sherlock, she had often prayed and had felt peace when she did so. But it seemed that prayer wasn't always enough. "I guess that was the wrong approach to take?"
Lori bit her lip. "Their intentions were good, and I know in hindsight that I did sometimes overreact about things. I would take things personally when I didn't need to, but I couldn't help it. I just didn't see it that way at the time. It was only after someone made what was probably just an innocent comment about the shortness of a skirt that I was wearing, that it finally clicked that I had a problem. But that was only after I spent days fretting that I must have a horrible sense of style and wondering if everything I wore was just unfashionable and ugly. My mom tried to tell me that the person who'd made the comment about my skirt was probably not saying it to be rude, and it was then when it really hit me that I'd allowed the comment to get to me, that it wasn't normal for a person to feel so attacked. I'd turned a simple comment about my skirt into a whole big thing about the person implying I had an awful fashion sense."
Molly couldn't help a little smile at that. "I have to say, if anyone has a horrible sense of style, it's me. I know the clothes I tend to wear are anything but fashionable. My favourite jumper is a striped one that is so old it has become all stretched out because I wore it for as long as I could when I was pregnant with Victoria. But it doesn't bother me. I dress for comfort usually." Then she added, "Although it is nice to dress up occasionally for Sherlock and see his eyes light up."
Lori smiled. "He was certainly wowed on your wedding day by that knockout gown."
Molly dimpled. "If there was any occasion where I really wanted to look my absolute best, it was my wedding day, although I'll never forget how stiff my hair was when the hairdresser used so much hairspray to make the waves stay for the whole day." She sobered. "But please, tell me more about how you've suffered from depression. I'd like to be better informed about it."
Before Lori could speak, Victoria interrupted them. "Look, Mama," she said, pointing at the 4 blocks she had stacked on top of one another.
"That's lovely, sweet pea," said Molly, giving her daughter a fond look. Then she laughed as Victoria pushed her foot forward to topple the blocks.
Lori laughed as well. "That's the best part of making a tower, isn't it, Victoria? Making it fall down."
Victoria beamed at her and resumed playing with the blocks.
Molly waited patiently for Lori to continue their conversation.
"Where was I? Oh, yeah. So, I was having a lot of trouble dealing with things and I had really low self-esteem. And I have to tell you, Molly, at times I felt so down I would even entertain thoughts of suicide. I really didn't have a bad life either or a truly valid reason for feeling so depressed. I had parents who were also Christians, who loved me, and yet I felt worthless at times. In fact, sometimes I felt I didn't deserve the good life I had, and that made me feel even worse."
Molly looked at her friend wide-eyed. She would never have expected a Christian to feel so unhappy that they would contemplate ending their life. How terrible Lori's depression must have been. It was interesting too, how a person could suffer from depression because they had a good life they felt they didn't deserve. She'd always thought depression was probably triggered by traumatic life circumstances. "I'm so sorry you felt that way, Lori," she said, knowing how inadequate her words were.
Lori twisted her fingers together and looked at Molly. "Honestly, I doubt I would ever have gone through with it, but the point is, I couldn't control those feelings."
"So, how long did this go on, before you decided you needed help?" Molly asked.
Lori furrowed her brow. "It was a couple of years. My parents sent me to counselling, which helped a little, but I still had occasional meltdowns, and I know it wasn't normal for me to feel the way I was feeling. My mother especially had a hard time, I think, in coming to terms with why I felt so bad so often. She was the one who finally decided I needed to see a doctor about it."
Molly nodded but didn't speak, not wanting to interrupt Lori's train of thought. She was grateful that Victoria was happy building and destroying her blocks.
"Anyway, at the doctor's office, they had me fill out a sheet of paper called the Beck Depression Inventory. There were questions about how sad I was feeling, if I felt discouraged, if I ever felt like killing myself, that kind of thing, and each answer had four options from zero to three, with three being the worst. When he added up my score at the end, the doctor determined I had severe depression and prescribed me antidepressants. It took a few tries to get the dosage right and a medication that worked well, but at last I felt normal."
"That must have been such a relief to both you and your parents," commented Molly.
"It was, but my mother had such a hard time over the whole depression diagnosis. She asked me what she'd done wrong, and if there was anything she could have done to make things better. I had to reassure her that she wasn't to blame for my depression, that it really was a medical condition, that's all. It had nothing to do with how I was raised. In fact, I had such a great upbringing, and I feel blessed that I grew up in a Christian household and got to know Jesus as my Saviour from a young age."
Molly twirled a strand of hair around her finger absently, thinking about what Lori had said. "Thank you for sharing this with me," she said at last. "I guess I've always assumed that faith could overcome anything, even depression. This really opens my eyes to understand that prayer and faith doesn't always remove an ailment, that sometimes medical intervention is needed to restore balance to our less-than-perfect systems."
Lori nodded. "Yeah, kind of like people who have asthma or diabetes. It's something that has to be treated medically for life, usually." Molly was a little surprised when she added, "And I've come to know that the medication is not perfect either. It doesn't completely eliminate the feeling of depression I sometimes feel, but it balances the chemicals produced by my brain enough that I don't feel the suicidal thoughts and am able to deal with the feelings, to understand they will pass."
Molly placed a hand on her friend's leg and patted it sympathetically. She couldn't even begin to imagine how it must feel to have to deal with severe depression. Her own ignorance about it highlighted that it was a condition that needed to be shared more publicly, like other neurological disorders.
Victoria came up to Molly then and tugged on her leg. She pointed over at a shelf that held several block puzzles. Apparently, she'd had enough of the blocks.
"Okay, Victoria, you can do a puzzle, but first we need to clean up your blocks," Molly told her daughter.
"Let me help," volunteered Lori.
"No, it's okay," Molly said, directing a smile at her friend, "I'm in here now. I'll help Victoria clean up her mess."
Molly spent a few minutes helping Victoria replace the blocks in the box and return it to its assigned shelf. She then withdrew three block puzzles for Victoria. One had shapes, another had farm animals, and the third was an alphabet puzzle.
Molly tipped out the pieces in three different places onto the child-height table for Victoria, and they turned over the pieces.
She returned to the rocking chair and watched with Lori as Victoria made short work of the shapes puzzle, then moved on to the farm animals one.
Molly smiled as Victoria contemplated the cow shape in her hand. Where most children would randomly push the pieces around until it slid into the right spot, Victoria's gaze went from puzzle piece to the cut-outs on the board, looking for the one that would match. Having made her decision, Victoria slid the piece into the correct place.
Molly and Lori applauded her efforts, and she turned to look at them. He smile of pride showed her dimple that matched Molly's. Then she returned her focus to the job at hand.
"She's really clever," commented Lori.
"I have a feeling she is going to be like Sherlock. She definitely enjoys puzzles."
With Victoria sufficiently distracted, Molly ventured another question towards Lori. "So, I was wondering, when did you start noticing a change after you stopped taking your antidepressants, if you don't mind me asking?"
Lori offered a small smile. "I don't mind you asking. After I discovered I was pregnant, I stopped taking them immediately."
Molly's brow furrowed. "Did you ask the advice of a doctor first?"
Lori sighed. "Perhaps I should have, but I did a search online and discovered that the meds I take do pose potential risk to a baby, so I didn't want to take a chance." She paused, then added, "I suppose everything seemed fine for about a month, and then, according to Greg, I started overreacting to things he considered trivial. Intellectually, I know he is right, but I've been trying to just tell myself to keep calm. Greg has really been very patient with me."
"Do you think things have been progressively getting harder to deal with?" asked Molly, curious.
Lori nodded. "Definitely. A few days ago, for example, I was making meatloaf and-"
Molly interrupted with, "Oh, that's the American dish Sherlock said you were going to make on Sunday for us to try. Are you sure you still want us to come over? We wouldn't want you to feel under any pressure when you aren't feeling the beat."
Lori waved away her concern. "I still want you to come, so don't worry about it. Anyways, as I was saying, I made a meatloaf for us for dinner a few days ago, and when we ate it, I discovered I had put in way too much salt." She looked embarrassed as she continued. "I had a complete meltdown over it, said I was an awful cook and that Greg would be better off without me."
Molly gave her a shocked look. "You felt so bad over a spoiled dish? It happens to everyone. I've burned stuff before, or put in too much garlic in my pasta sauce. Seasoning a dish correctly without having exact measurements is always hit or miss."
Lori nodded. "Exactly. And meatloaf is something where you just have to guess at the amount of salt, pepper and other seasonings to put into it. It's not like you can taste the raw meat to make sure it's seasoned correctly. But that's another example of what can happen when you suffer from depression and anxiety. One minute, you're fine, the next, something just causes you to feel worthless. I understand this better than I used to, but it doesn't stop those feelings from happening."
"Done," said Victoria, and Molly looked over to see she had finished the animal puzzle.
"Well done, sweet pea." She stood and walked over to her daughter, ruffling her hair. She indicated the alphabet puzzle a little further along the table. "Why don't you do the last one now?"
"Yes, Mama," responded Victoria, walking over to the puzzle as Molly picked up the completed shapes and animal ones and returned them to the shelf.
Molly resumed her seat and placed her hands on her abdomen, feeling a slight fluttering sensation as the baby inside her moved. She should have brought a couple biscuits into the nursery. She thought longingly of the biscuits she had baked for the play rehearsal that she had placed on a serving platter in the hall, ginger nuts and shortbread. A nice piece of shortbread would really hit the spot right now.
Apparently noticing the way Molly's hands were on her abdomen, Lori asked, "Can you feel the baby moving already?"
Molly smiled. "Yes. It's more of a fluttering sensation that happens sometimes. I started feeling the baby move a month ago. When I was pregnant with Victoria, I didn't feel the baby move until after I'd had my second scan."
Lori looked a little relieved. "When you said you've been feeling the baby for a month, I got a bit worried, until you added that it took longer for Victoria."
"From what I've read, it usually takes longer with first pregnancies. I'm sure you'll start feeling it yourself soon." She gave Lori a look of curiosity. "Are you and Greg planning to find out if you are having a boy or girl?"
Lori put a hand over her own baby bump. "Greg and I discussed it, but we decided there are far too few surprises left in the world, so we don't want to know in advance."
Molly didn't regret finding out the gender of her own babies, but she understood and respected Lori's feelings about it. There were definitely benefits to leaving it as a surprise. She still found it rather amusing that Sherlock had also wished to know their baby's gender when she had been pregnant with Victoria. That was, right up until the day of her 20 week scan, when he had suddenly decided he didn't want to know. Molly hadn't changed her mind, though, and the ultrasound technician had whispered in Molly's ear that she was having a girl. Of course, Sherlock had not liked the fact that Molly knew something he didn't, and he had changed his mind again about wanting to know. Molly had kept him in suspense for two weeks, until Christmas Day, when she had revealed the baby's gender, with the aid of Christmas crackers she had prepared with pink ribbons that the Holmes family pulled after they ate Christmas dinner. Sherlock had learned his lesson though, and with this pregnancy he had been determined from the start to find out the gender. He wanted to prove that his deduction, that they were having another girl, was correct. He had been very self-satisfied that his deduction had been correct.
"Totally understandable," she said to Lori. "Do either of you have a preference?"
Lori rubbed her belly absently. "Greg has said he'd like a little girl, but I'm just so thrilled at this miracle I never expected to happen, that I'll be content with a boy or girl. All I want is for the baby to be healthy."
"I'll keep you in my prayers for that," said Molly.
Lori smiled at her. "I appreciate it, and you are also in my prayers for a safe pregnancy. I think it's pretty cool that we are both expecting babies so close together."
Molly laughed. "Once we are in our third trimester, we can commiserate over aching backs and swollen feet."
"Oh, Lord, I hope not. With the way I've been feeling, if I end up with swollen feet, I'll probably burst into tears and be depressed about it." Lori's voice was casual, but Molly wondered if that could cause a problem. Was there really nothing Lori could do about her issues while pregnant?
She decided to ask a question. "Lori, have you thought about speaking with your midwife about alternative medication you could take while you are pregnant that is considered safe for the baby? I'm sure there must be some that poses little risk, and your mental health is important as well."
Lori looked surprised. "Do you know, I hadn't even considered that. I was just in such a panic when I learned that my medication could pose a health risk for the baby, that I didn't consider switching to an alternative."
At that moment, Molly heard the door to the nursery open and Sherlock poked his head in. Apparently, it was time for the mid-rehearsal break.
"Sorry to interrupt," he said, brandishing a serviette on which rested three pieces of shortbread. Molly grinned. How ironic that she had been craving a piece of shortbread. "Thought I'd see if you ladies would like a snack, and Victoria too."
Molly saw Victoria look up from her puzzle, which she had almost finished.
Molly and Lori took a piece with a word of thanks, and Sherlock went over to Victoria to give her the other biscuit, breaking a piece off for her.
Just before taking a bite of her shortbread, Molly asked, "How's the rehearsal going?"
After Sherlock assured Molly that things were going well, Lori encouraged her to return to the hall for the second half of rehearsal.
Molly knew it would be good for her to be there in person. Her scene as Mary of Bethany was probably coming up soon, but she hesitated. "Are you sure?"
"Absolutely," responded Lori confidently. "I think I'm going to take your advice and talk to my midwife about alternative medication to take during pregnancy."
Molly saw Sherlock glance up from feeding Victoria the shortbread, and Lori added, "Molly can tell you what we talked about. It's not a secret, really, just something I don't share with too many people."
Molly was pleased that Lori was giving permission for her to discuss things with Sherlock. She didn't like keeping things fromhim. She already harboured one confidential secret from her friend Kaitlyn. Kaitlyn had confessed a couple months earlier that she had had an abortion at the age of nineteen. Kaitlyn had confided in Molly after expressing concern that she and her husband were having difficulty conceiving. Although pro-life herself, Molly had listened to her friend without judgement. She felt sad that her friend had felt abortion was the only option, but her place as a friend was to listen and show compassion. Molly would have loved to discuss things with Sherlock, but she had not disclosed her confidential conversation with Kaitlyn. Sherlock, although a little curious over the nature of the after-work coffee shop conversation between the women, had not pressed her for details. Molly had appreciated his restraint.
Molly shot Lori a smile and finished eating her shortbread.
Soon afterwards, leaving Victoria in the capable hands of Lori, Sherlock offered his hand to Molly, and she took it. Together, they walked back to the church hall for the rest of the play rehearsal.
He squeezed her hand. "I'm glad you had your chat, but also that you could come back to rehearsal. I'm ready for you to pretend to pour perfume over my feet and dry them with your hair."
Molly grinned up at him. She had done this in rehearsal several times already and wanted to tease him a bit. "You're lucky I'm the one playing Mary of Bethany. Nobody else would want to get so close to your smelly feet."
"Hey," he protested, "I do not have smelly feet!"
Molly rolled her eyes at him as they neared the entrance to the hall? "Really? Next time I do the washing, I'll let you have a good whiff of those bunched up socks you've thrown into the washing basket."
He pursed his lips. "Very well. I suppose I would have to concede that my feet smell less than fresh after a day spent in shoes. Luckily for you, on the night of the performance, I'll be walking around the entire time with bare feet. Hopefully that will mean they are less noxious, being unconstrained by socks and shoes."
Just before they entered the hall, Molly reached up to kiss his cheek. "Oh, I do love it when you get all formal with your words. Noxious and unconstrained, indeed."
He smirked. "I know. I'm just your all-round, lovable husband."
"That you are," she agreed, and together they entered the hall.
 One of my goals as an author has always been to write stories that are relatable, stories that can uplift or educate the reader in some way. This one-shot is very close to my heart because I have been touched by it personally with a close family member, and some of the dialogue was inspired by real life events that brought on a severe bout of depression. Quite frankly, it was terrifying for me to see and to learn I cannot control the outcome of another person's life. I hope in sharing this story, that the words reach someone who needs to hear them, either a person who suffers from depression and realizes they need help, or it helps a reader gain a better understanding of the condition.
The 
 (BDI) is used here in America for adolescents. Being American, Lori could have received this test, although I don't know for a fact when it became something commonly used by pediatricians.
Two other stories of mine are referenced in this one - 
, which has Molly and Kaitlyn's conversation, and 
, where Molly does her special gender reveal.
If you feel so inclined, share your own experiences with depression as a sufferer or someone who has watched another person struggle with it. Many people read reviews as well as the stories, and your own review could help someone make the decision to seek help. Maybe it could even save someone's life, to make them feel less alone, to know there are others out there like them and there is help available. Please help me spread the word on this condition.
