"William! Slow down! You know my ol' girl can't run as fast as your stallion!"
William Sherlock Scott Holmes slows his horse and throws a blindingly white half-smile, half-smirk behind his shoulder. "Woahhh, boy...", he chides as he pats the side of the stallion's head. "Lil Miss Margaret and her sweet old mare can't seem to keep up with us studs."
Margaret's horse comes to a slow stop next to his and she scoffs. "I heard that. My mare may be getting up there in age but I'm still in my early thirties thank you very much. And that's Maggie to you. You know I hate my full name."
He grins softly as a few of his wild curls poke out from his hat, and reaching over from atop his saddle he takes her hand, kissing it. "I know Maggie. I'm sorry. I'll slow down for you if you like as well. I know Belle here is your favorite mare, despite her age. Forgive me?"
Maggie blushes from her cheeks down her chest and William can't help but wonder just how far the rosiness went.
"Yes. Of course, I forgive you. Now the lake shouldn't be too far ahead. We can get the horses some water and have a dip ourselves. The sun is getting nearly unbearable."
"Sounds agreeable." Gently whipping their reins, they trot down the path towards the lake on their steeds, the hot sun creating a sheen of sweat on their already sunburned bodies.
Moments later they come up to the lake and William hops off his stallion. Maggie swings her leg over to hop from hers but gasps as her other foot gets caught in the stirrup and she falls forward. She quickly squeezes her eyes shut, expecting to faceplate into the dirt, but instead feels a strong pair of arms catch her. She looks up shyly and sees William looking down at her concerned, his kaleidoscope eyes blazing like colorful flames.
"Oh! I-I...I apologize. I didn't mean-...my foot just uh..."
He smiles and chuckles. "It's quite alright. Happens to us all at some point. Those stirrups just don't go very well with certain shoes, do they?"
As she stares into his eyes, she just about forgets that he's speaking at all, never mind asking her a question. Shaking herself out of it she blushes as he continues to stare at her worriedly. "Right. Yeah. Sorry."
"You sure you're alright?"
"Yes, yes I'm fine William. Thank you for...preventing my fall."
"You're welcome", he murmurs, setting her on the ground. He grabs his canteen and goes down to the lake. Maggie looks after him, still a bit dazed. They have been good acquaintances for some years, some would even say friends. But she never believed she'd feel these types of feelings for him. Plus, he never would. He's not that type of man, and he usually rides alone.
It just so happened that his friend, a Sheriff in the town they are headed to, has a particularly puzzling mystery on his hands and William is about the best detective around. Despite not being a lawfully bound detective, people call him from all over the west to help solve their mysteries. So he is seen riding all over most of the time with his satchel of mystery-solving materials. He's never one to go for affairs of the heart. Well, not too often, he is human though, after all.
Grabbing her canteen and hitching up her long skirts, she makes her way down to the bank of the lake as the horse's drink on the other side. She watches him fill his canteen before tossing it aside on the dry grass, taking his suspenders, trousers, hat, and shirt off, and wading into the water with only his long underwear on. Suppressing her jaw from going slack at the physique he's been hiding under all those clothes, or at least what she can make out, and she pretends not to notice as she fills her own canteen.
Once it's filled, she is hesitant about going into the water as delightful as that would be to cool down her body, but her skirts would be soggy for days and would weigh her down. She supposes she does have her underclothes, but how lewd would that be! To be in her underclothes with a man while unwed. Ghastly. Not to mention embarrassing.
Leaning down, she unties her shoes and slips them off, deciding to dip her feet in the lake to cool down slightly.
"Hooper! Why aren't you taking a dip? The water is to die for."
"My skirts will get all soggy and weigh me down the rest of the day if I do so. Unfortunately, it's better if I don't, Holmes." She smiles slightly as the glaring rays really show off the ginger hairs that are sprinkled among his facial hair.
Holmes wades over to her and sits on the bank next to her. "This heat is unbearable. Your own words. I think this is more about you feeling embarrassed or undignified than it is about the sogginess of your skirts."
Maggie opens her mouth to protest then sighs. "Possibly. But I'm no man. I can't just strip down to my underthings and take a dip. That's unfathomable for a woman."
William shrugs. "I never understood high societal norms. Personally, I think they're ridiculous. Plus I know from personal experience that a woman can be just as brutal as any man. I've met many a killer cowgirl. Great crack shots. I've met women who have killed their husbands with a simple cooking pan as revenge for adultery. I've seen women beat dozens of men in poker and I've seen women balance three children in their arms. Any woman can be just as well as any man. Manner of dress is irrelevant. So if you're hot, you should be able to take a dip. I'm not bothered, and neither should you be."
Maggie looks over his face and into his eyes. "Alright...I will." Getting up, she takes off her hat and layers of her dress and skirt until she's in her corset and pantaloons.
"I look ridiculous!"
"You look fine. Natural without all those frills. Honestly, you could do without the corset but that may be a step too much as far as indecency."
She turns red and huffs, wading into the water and sighing happily as the coolness hits her singeing skin. "Mm, you're right. This is lovely."
He grins boyishly and jumps in, splashing her.
"Hey!"
"Hay is for horses, dear Maggie."
"Oh hush."
Smirking, he swims around for a bit before moving over to where she is. He splashes her from behind, emitting a high-pitched squeal from his companion.
"Holmes!", Maggie exclaims and turns around quickly to face him.
"Yesss, Hooper?"
"You are impossible!", she scoffs, and splashes him back, unable to stop herself from giggling a bit.
William chuckles and they splash one another like playful children for a short while. When the playfulness dies down, he strokes some water droplets from her pink flushed face. As she looks up at him, their eyes lock onto one another and time stems to stall.
Before either of them realize what happened, they are molded together in a heated kiss. The likes of which neither has ever felt so much passion before. If anyone was around, they would have labeled it highly inappropriate, and maybe even scandalous. They have reputations to uphold, by God!
William Holmes and Dr. Maggie Hooper are a tangle of limbs. Torsos pressed against one another, hands in hair, bated breath on lips, and tongues tangling in a play for dominance.
After what feels like an eternity without oxygen, the two pull apart and breathe finally, labored.
"William", Maggie murmurs in disbelief.
"Maggie..."
She looks at him both in awe and in nervous terror, speechless.
"Don't be so worried, hm? Nobody saw us. It's just us here."
"Right...", she clears her throat and scrambles out of the water quite clumsily and he smiles a bit. She has been clumsy from the day he met her in all aspects of her life except her job. As a coroner, she has the steadiest hand he's ever seen on a morgue worker.
He follows her out of the lake and wrings out as much water as he can from his underwear, watching her subtly do the same, and involuntarily admiring the curves of her small breasts, shapely in her corset.
"Maggie?"
"Yes, Will?"
He raises an eyebrow. "Will?"
She smiles shyly and shrugs. "Yes? It just sounds nice. Shorter, but nice."
"Okay...anyway, um...how...", he clears his throat, having a hard time getting the question out. He knows Maggie is trustworthy and a great confidante, but he still feels as if he is exposing his heart which he never wanted to do in his lifetime.
Maggie awaits the rest of the question, slowly slipping the layers of her dress back on before attempting to tame her tangled hair and putting her hat back into place on her head. "Well? Go on."
Taking a deep breath, he rubs his face with one hand. "How did you feel about what transpired a moment ago?"
Seeing a rose blush rush to her cheeks, he watches as she shifts her weight a bit uncomfortably, stroking her horse. "I felt that it was...good. Nice. Really pleasant. And you?"
"I thought the same. I'm glad we have cleared that up. So it's nothing to be ashamed of or tip-toed around."
"Alright."
"Would you ever like it to happen again?"
Maggie gapes a bit then composes herself, smoothing the skirt of her dress. "Yes. I think I would. That is, if you do as well. You are my best confidante, after all. However, I think we have been through a lot of things that constitute us as friends as well."
"Agreed, and I feel the same way. Say...you are a lovely woman, Dr. Maggie Hooper."
"Thank you, Will...I wish others felt the same."
"Others? What does that matter?"
"Well, you know. Male others...suitors. I am a woman of maturity; I don't have many good years left to accomplish some other things I'd like to in my life. Unfortunately, most men are put off by my field of work, and the other half refuses to court a woman who chooses to be involved in that sort of work. Old-fashioned saps, really. So that does not leave many options for me."
"What other things are you looking to accomplish? You're an incredible female coroner, you make more than a handful of men in our county, you live a comfortable life in a home that you own on your own right. Why would you want a husband?"
Maggie looks at him with a hint of sadness and longing in her eyes. "Other reasons..."
"Other reasons...", he thinks for a moment then the lightbulb goes off. "Ohhh, you want children", he states matter of factly.
"I always wished to have a child or two. But the timing was never right with my career, and of course, courting opportunities were sparse, and ultimately they're not the kind of men I'd want to make a father or a husband."
"I never knew you wanted children. How did /I/ not know that?", he muses to himself.
"Well, think of it this way, if worse comes to worst, we could always marry and procreate."
She nearly chokes on her water as she sipped from her canteen. "What?", she squeaks out in utter shock.
He shrugs. "I don't have plans to marry anyone. But you want children, I get along quite nicely with them truthfully. Though that may be because I can act a child myself on occasion as you know. It may be quite nice having a couple. My mother wouldn't have to complain about Mycroft and me not passing along our superior genetics and the last name, because if we got married, you'd take my name, and our children would have part of my genes. I enjoy your company, and you enjoy mine. We can hold our own against each other. I wouldn't be put off by marrying you. It could be a fulfilling arrangement for both of us. Things would remain the same between us for the most part. Aside from the creation of the children and the kissing, which again, was quite enjoyable. So I am sure a more intimate connection would also be pleasant to me when the time comes for it. So if you don't find a more preferable partner in your personal allotted time, I'd not be too hesitant to offer."
Maggie stares at him wide-eyed and dumbfounded. "William Holmes."
"Yes?", he looks over at her a bit shyly, realizing he was rambling.
"Are you asking me to marry you?"
"I suppose I am. Offering that is. If you don't find a more emotionally investable man."
"What if I wanted to call off my search and say yes to you right now?"
"That would certainly be your choice. I'd hope you'd think it through first though, and you know how I can be."
"I've thought about it, and I'd...like to accept your offer. If it stands."
"It does..."
"Then yes. I-I accept. I'll become your wife."
"And I, your husband."
Maggie grins happily, her cheeks as red as cherries as she goes over and wraps her arms around his neck. William tenses for a moment before wrapping his arms around her, holding her small, thin frame in his arms. "I would like to kiss you again, Will."
"You don't have to ask any longer, Magpie", he smirks and winks.
"Magpie?"
"Yes. You work with corpses; magpie birds represent death. Goes with your name. I say it fondly though, I assure you. If we are doing the pet name thing."
Maggie laughs and shakes her head, gently grabbing his face and pressing her lips against his, kissing him tenderly.
Minutes later the new pair ride off into the sunset together, towards William's next case.
Once they are back in their hometown, their engagement is announced to everyone's shock. Sherlock gifts his future wife with a dazzling amethyst ring to symbolize their upcoming nuptials.
On October 24th, 1920, at 4:24pm, William Sherlock Scott Holmes married his new bride, Doctor Margaret Louise Holmes surrounded by William's family and the townsfolk. Both those who approved, and those that did not, showed up to experience the lavish spectacle.
Nearly a year to the day, their first child, Abigayle Joy Holmes was born into the arms of her loving mother and doting father. She was the first of five biological children. Abigayle grew up for nearly two years with her elder adoptive sister before her other siblings were born in the years to come.
William and Maggie adopted a young, orphaned girl from one of Sherlock's cases shortly after Abby's birth. The child, Cassidy Jade, needed guidance and had a similarly brilliant mind to Sherlock even at the tender age of five.
William kept his promise, and unconventionally the couple worked out ways in which they could each have their careers and take care of their children. Their methods were disputed and gawked at by many, but they didn't let that bother them.
The life of William "Will" and Margaret "Maggie / Magpie" Holmes was better than they imagined. It was even more fulfilling and enraptured in love than either of the two would know the day they made the hasty decision to marry. The two ended up passing away within days of each other, William's heart had slowly stopped beating with the love of his life no longer by his side. They had six children and eighteen grandchildren to pass on their stories of adventures and legacy of crime-solving, brilliance, and love.
