.:: 
 ::.
When Sherlock woke up the next morning, it actually took him two seconds to orientate himself. The ceiling above him wasn't the usual light green, but cream. The duvet cover was made of a coarse cotton fabric—most likely Gossypium hirsutum—and the mattress was soft and spread out. The entire room looked different from his bedroom. It looked like the bedroom of—
"Molly!"
Immediately he could hear hectic footsteps in the hallway.
"Yes, Sherlock?" Molly had the courtesy—and probably the sanity—not to go into the room.
"Will you make me some tea? Black, without milk and sugar."
"Of course." He could hear her hurrying away from the door and, shortly afterwards, the noises of clattering dishes.
Sherlock got up to get dressed, but the moment he tried to reach for his dressing gown and instead reached into space, he understood completely. Right. He wasn't home. This wasn't 221B Baker Street. And it wasn't Mrs. Hudson who would make him the tea. After all, he couldn't hear any conversations between her and John thought the old Baker Street walls that were colored differently in each room. Instead, for company he had a cat that was even more annoying than John's constantly changing partners.
Then Sherlock spotted the suitcase by the bed. When he opened it, he found, neatly folded, two more sets of suits and his dressing gown. Sometimes Mycroft was actually good as a brother. But before the slightest smirk could creep on his face, his gaze darkened. That could only mean one thing.
With force, he swung open the door and crossed the narrow hallway with great strides.
"Molly?" He called loudly through the apartment, and suddenly a red-haired head appeared next to him.
"Yes, Sherlock?"
"Where is my brother?"
"Here, my dear brother mine!" The sound of an all-too familiar voice came from the room to his left.
Mycroft was sitting in a large red armchair in Molly's living room, reading the newspaper. When Sherlock came up to him, he closed up the paper sheets and presented the front page to him. "FAUX DETECTIVE COMMITS SUICIDE," the 
 had named its leading article. They'd slapped a huge photo of his supposed corpse next to it.
"The world thinks you're dead," Mycroft said with a satisfied smile and leaned back in the chair.
"Very good."
Molly appeared next to Sherlock and placed a tray with two cups and a teapot on the small side table next to the armchair.
"The Internet is upside down; everyone just has one topic," Mycroft continued.
"Hopefully this won't last too long. The more attention is paid to my death, the higher the chance that I'll somehow be discovered." Without looking at the newspaper again, Sherlock poured the black tea into a cup and took it to the sofa on the other side of the living room. He sat down and sipped the tea. Classic Earl Gray—fantastic.
"Don't worry, that won't happen," Mycroft replied.
"Then my brother must have set all the levers in motion again," replied Sherlock and gave him a big grin.
Mycroft raised his eyebrows. "I beg your pardon—as if Parliament were interested in you."
Before the younger of the two Holmes brothers could reply, he was interrupted by a timid Molly. "Sherlock? Would you like something for breakfast? I have different types of cereal, but I can also—"
"Nothing, thank you."
"O-okay." Reluctantly, she nodded her head, then scurried back into the kitchen.
"And how long do you want to stay here?" Mycroft asked, looking dismissively through the brightly decorated living room.
"Oh, I thought you already had a destination for me."
"Indeed not. With the current attention that your personage is getting, I would have to let you fly to Siberia so that no one takes notice of your survival. I still have a few things to do. So first stand on this," he said while pointing with his hand through the whole room. "Think of it as a vacation." Mycroft smirked when he caught sight of Sherlock's incredulous expression.
"Isn't there a 
 for me?"
"You could think about how to manage your complete disappearance from our western world."
"But why? That's what I have you for."
Mycroft gave a dry laugh. Without saying anything, he put the newspaper aside and stood up. "I have to go. The government may not care about your death, but the death of James Moriarty is actually something that 
 causing an uproar among the ministers. Well then, my dear brother mine," he said and waved goodbye to Sherlock. "Ta-ta for now." And with that, he left the apartment.
What remained was a consulting detective with a wrinkling nose, still dressed in pajamas and with a teacup in hand. As if his death wasn't important. 
 Lestrade was probably crying at his desk and John... Did John miss him?
"I-I'm going to work now."
With a twitch, Sherlock startled from his thoughts. Molly stood before him, dressed in a coat and boots, an uncertain look on her face.
"What?" Asked Sherlock.
"I said I'm going to work now. Yesterday I showed you where everything is. Make yourself at home. And please feed Toby around noon."
Oh yes, the cat. Where was it?
"I'll be back around 6:30 p.m. I can bring us dinner if you want. D-do you like Thai?"
"Do you order from the Thai on Dean Street?" he asked, but before Molly could answer, Sherlock continued. "It makes really fantastic curry. Court 505, please."
"But that's—"
"Really excellent, I know. Saved the owner from going to jail by proving that it wasn't he who killed his wife, but that she committed suicide. Just say the order comes from Sherlock Holmes, and you should get the food for free."
"But Sherlock…" Molly looked at him sadly.
"Yes?"
"Everyone thinks you're dead."
"Oh..."
He only half noticed how Molly briefly put her hand on his shoulder and assured him that she would still bring Dish 505 from the Thai on Dean Street. Nor did he really hear her leave the house and the door slam back into the lock. He was dead. Indeed. Everyone thought he was dead. Mrs. Hudson thought he was dead, John...
...It was a boring day. Mycroft may have brought him his dressing gown and clothes, but what good was all of this if he couldn't leave the house? All of his equipment and experiments were still at 221B Baker Street, and his brother hadn't even picked up his laptop. So he texted him and Molly.
It was late in the evening when Sherlock finally heard the front door open and someone—apparently heavily packed—came running down the hall.
"Sherlock?" Molly called loudly. But he didn't have to answer; she was already in the living room with him. "Hey," she greeted him with a smile. "I have your food."
"Finally. Why did it take you so long?" he asked, sitting up from the couch. In the past few hours, he had almost sunk into the upholstery.
"N-well, Dean Street and Baker Street are at the other end of the center. There I was
"
"You have my laptop?"
"Yes, it's... here." Molly handed him the laptop bag. Sherlock quickly unpacked his computer and switched it on. Forgotten was the boredom that had driven him through the day and the hunger that had crept in over the course of the long hours.
"What did you do today?" Molly asked as she went back into the hall to take off her jacket and boots.
"Investigating British television. It really is incredibly boring
besides this one station that broadcast reports on the reactions of various chemical substances to changing weather conditions. But even that's pure basic knowledge. How can people spend all day staring into that box?" Sherlock asked indignantly, while frantically typing on the keys of his laptop.
"N-well, I really like to watch a movie in the evening. That relaxes me," explained Molly. She had gone back into the living room to unpack the food that she had brought back from the Thai delivery. Sherlock could smell the tangy curry of Dish 505.
In fact, while she was eating, Molly happened to turn on a station that was showing a cheesy romance movie. It was about a man and a woman who, after years of friendship, realized that they actually harbored romantic feelings for each other.
That's rubbish.
"Oh, he doesn't mean that at all! Look at the top of his head, Judy! He's obviously homosexual!"
"Sherlock, I really don't think the makers—"
"Have thought? Neither do I. But so few do that... Oh, really? Purple roses? He's clearly homosexual." He leaned in, engrossed.
Molly couldn't help but smile. "Sherlock, is it possible that you're... enjoying the movie?"
He wrinkled his nose indignantly. "What nonsense. It's just the closest thing to a case right now. Your neighborhood is so boring, Molly; unfortunately, there isn't anyone with anything criminal to hide."
"'Fortunately,' I'd rather say," she replied, smiling slightly.
"Mrs. Jones and Mr. Piper are having an affair, by the way."
"The postman and the tea shop owner?" Molly sounded shocked. "A-are you sure?"
"Of course, just look at how filthy his mailbox is. It's not used a bit, which means that she hands over the mail to him personally. And this morning she just drove past his shop to meet up tonight. That's when she'll deliver the mail to him personally." Out of the corner of his eye he could see Molly staring at him in amazement. "Oh, come on! You didn't know that?" he asked, disappointed.
"N-no. B-apparently not."
Then he and Molly fell silent. Only the television continued to play, displaying how the man finally confessed his love to the woman.
"Can you get me my microscope?"
"Your microscope?" Molly turned to him, puzzled. She was washing the dishes and listening to frankly terrible pop music.
"Yes. And I need the jar with eyeballs that's in my fridge."
Molly's eyes widened and looked at him reproachfully. "You're not serious."
"I'm not joking, Molly. You know that." Sherlock was sitting at the kitchen table with his laptop. He'd spent the last two days posting a new blog under an alias where people with strange cases could reach out to him. There had been a few requests so far, but none of them had been interesting enough. He wondered when Lestrade would be in touch.
"Um... okay... I'll get it tomorrow then." There was silence again for a few seconds. Only the radio music and the clink of dishes filled the room. Then Molly raised her head. "You know, Sherlock... John and Mrs. Hudson, they..."
He looked up from his computer and looked at her. "Yes?"
"They... well... they... Wouldn't you like to tell them about your survival?" For a moment everything seemed to stand still. Sherlock stopped hearing the music and forgot about his computer. There was only him and Molly's words.
"I can't."
Confused, she turned and looked at him. "But why not?"
"I explained that to you," he replied impatiently. "When Mrs. Hudson and John find out I was just faking my death, they'll want us to start over and pretend nothing never happened. But that doesn't work, and we both know that. Moriarty has ruined my reputation, I can't…" For a moment he felt his voice give way. But just as quickly he recovered himself. "I can't go back to Baker Street."
When he looked up, he saw a sad smile on Molly's face. She took off her gloves and sat across from him at the kitchen table.
"Well," she said. "Then we must make sure that your reputation is restored."
When he heard her coming home from work, he had spoken without a greeting.
Instead: "What do you think of #sherlock2k12?"
"#Sherlock2k12? What does that mean?"
"An internet trend." At Molly's questioning look, Sherlock explained his idea. "The best way to reach people is through the media, and which medium works particularly well today? The Internet. And hashtags are the revolutionary exclamations of the internet."
"You want to use a hashtag to prepare for your return?"
"Yep-p," Sherlock replied, popping the "p" of his answer as if it were the most obvious thing in the world. He was hunched over his microscope at Molly's kitchen table. All around him were various samples of soil material that some of his contacts from his homeless network had collected for him.
"Well, that's not a bad idea... But will you find the year in which you died a little early for your return?"
"It's currently unclear when I'll return among the living. The name is provisional."
"Oh," replied Molly and began to put away her purchases. "Then you will definitely find a better one."
He already noticed that something was different when he heard Molly's footsteps down the hall. It wasn't the muffled sound that flat sneakers made on the floor. That was the sound of heels.
"Where are you going?"
When he turned his head to face her, she was standing in front of him. Dressed all in black. A black, narrow dress that ended at her knees, a thin black jacket that hugged her shoulders and black high heels that automatically made her stand taller. She looked like a different person.
It took Molly a while to answer.
"To your funeral."
"Oh."
"M-would you like... would you like to come?"
"No."
"I can understand that..."
The silence between them became uncomfortable even for him.
"Is there a funeral for me?" he asked incredulously. He frowned when he realized he had spoken the thought out loud.
"Yes. Of course," Molly replied with a smile. "John and Mrs. Hudson organized it. Lestrade and a few people from Scotland Yard and St. Bart's will be there. Your parents and your brother will of course be there, too…" When Molly saw Sherlock's gaze, she stopped talking.
He couldn't believe that there were actually so many people who wanted to pay their final respects to him. For a moment he felt something like... emotion.
"Do you think I can go to your funeral like this?" Molly asked, tearing him from his thoughts. Sherlock looked her up and down again and smiled.
"I couldn't ask for a nicer guest."
The sentence made her blush. Suddenly the color of her skin pricked her hair in a terrible way. Sherlock cleared his throat quickly.
"If John is putting on this... that awful tie, then... make him take it off. I want you to know that. He can't wear ties; they don't suit him."
"Yes, I will," laughed Molly and the blush subsided.
"Enjoy my funeral, Molly Hooper."
It had been three weeks since the world's only consulting detective jumped off the roof of a hospital and died. It had also been a week since he was buried in a London cemetery. During that time, Sherlock hadn't even left Molly's apartment, and his contact had been mostly limited to her and his brother Mycroft. Though Molly had asked him several times to tell John and Mrs. Hudson about his survival, he hadn't. Until today.
Molly had told him the day before that John and Mrs. Hudson were going to visit his grave this afternoon. He had made the executive decision to meet the two of them there and enlighten them discreetly.
By the time he got to the grave, John and Mrs. Hudson were already there. It was 4:03 p.m. and Molly had told him they wouldn't be at the cemetery before 4:15 p.m. Apparently the two had changed their plans for the day a little.
He stood leaning behind a tree a little further away. Suddenly all certainty was gone, and Sherlock was no longer sure whether he should really show himself to the two of them. Mrs. Hudson was holding a bouquet of flowers, which she carefully placed in front of the grave. Then she said something to John that Sherlock couldn't hear. John looked miserable. It struck Sherlock that his forehead was deeply wrinkled, and the limp on his leg seemed worse than ever (Sherlock could tell by the way he clearly shifted his weight on one leg).
He didn't know what to do.
Going to them no longer seemed an option. Pain, he found, was real. And although Sherlock didn't know much about human emotions, one thing was clear to him: suffering took time. Pain had to heal. He couldn't disturb this process now. And honestly? Telling anyone about his survival had never been part of the plan. Only Molly, Mycroft, and a handful of the London homeless were privy to it, and... it was to stay that way. What had ridden him to come here?
Sherlock left the cemetery at the same time as John and Mrs. Hudson.
When he got back to Molly's apartment, she was already waiting for him in the kitchen.
"And?" she asked excitedly.
When he sat down behind his microscope without saying anything and ignored her question, Molly's smile disappeared.
"What happened?"
"Nothing."
"Then you didn't go to them, right?"
"No."
"Oh, Sherlock... W-why did you stop?"
"Stopping? It was never part of the plan, so I didn't. End of story."
Out of the corner of his eye, he could see Molly's uncertain look. For a moment, he feared she would hug him, but then she turned away. Seconds later, he suddenly had the smell of spicy curry in his nose. When he looked up, he couldn't help but smile.
"I brought you Dish 505."
"What do you think of #sherlocksarmy?"
"Do you want to go into battle?"
"No, how do you get that?" Sherlock looked at Molly over the edge of his laptop, irritated.
"Well, Harry founded Dumbledore's army to fight Lord Voldemort," she explained.
"Harry?" He looked even more confused than before.
"Yes. Together with Hermione and Ron." When she saw his questioning look, she looked at him in disbelief. "Don't say that you actually don't know who or what 
 is."
"Harry Potter?" And at that moment Molly burst out laughing, loud as he had never heard her laugh before. "It's a series of books about a wizard student," she explained. "But we'll save that for later. Otherwise I'll deviate completely from the topic." She continued to giggle anyway.
"From your reaction I infer that #sherlocksarmy is a... plagiarism?" Sherlock asked.
"Perhaps not, but... if you don't want the hashtag to be understood as a call to battle, maybe think of a better one."
"Hm. Then probably not."
For a few minutes there was silence between them. All one could hear was the keys on Sherlock's laptop and the clink of the plates and cups Molly was putting in the dishwasher. All at once, Sherlock exclaimed in surprise, "Anderson found my blog."
"I beg your pardon?"
"Anderson found my blog. Here, look. He wrote me a message!"
Sherlock turned the laptop one-eighty degrees so that Molly could see the screen. The consulting detective had opened the mailbox of his blog. There were five new messages there, including from Anderson.
"What did he write?" she asked.
Sherlock opened the message. Anderson had explained that he suspected that Sherlock Holmes' death was fake. Now he asked for help to solve the case and to find Sherlock again.
"How did he get this idea?" Sherlock asked alarmed.
"I-I don't know exactly..." Molly was a little puzzled herself. "Greg said a few days ago that Philip has been very absent from work lately. His thoughts were completely different. He didn't show up last Wednesday, without a reason."
"Who is Philip?"
Molly stared at him in disbelief. "Anderson. Philip Anderson. The forensic scientist who wrote you an email."
"His name is Philip? Okay."
"What are you going to do?" Molly asked, ignoring Sherlock's apparent dislike of the forensic scientist.
"Get rid of him. Make it clear that Sherlock Holmes is very dead. Sooner or later he'll find me alive."
Molly shook her head with a smile. "Be nice to him."
He put the last glass in the box provided for it, then wiped again with a rag over all the surfaces on which his devices had accumulated dust in the past few weeks. Finally he put the cup from which he had drunk his daily black tea in the dishwasher. The kitchen looked like new. As if Sherlock Holmes, with all his equipment and fabrics and experiments, had never set foot on its threshold.
He turned away and went into the hall. Molly stood there next to all his boxes and a suitcase. It was the same suitcase Mycroft had brought on the first day after his death. It was the only thing Sherlock was going to take with him.
"Mycroft should be here in three minutes," he said, looking at his watch.
"How do you feel?"
"Let's put it this way; my fall from St. Bart's worried me more," Sherlock replied with a smile.
Molly looked at him, worried anyway. "Myanmar is very far away."
"From a certain point on, the distance no longer matters. The only difference is the price of the plane ticket."
Molly even had to laugh at that. Then she changed the subject. "I have another idea for a hashtag," she said.
"And that would be?"
"#Ibelieveinsherlock."
Sherlock let the wording echo in his head. He could see it now, in bright sunny yellow text. Then he smiled warmly. "Are we doing that?"
"Yes," she laughed, but her laugh sounded sad. "Naturally. I will always believe in you." Suddenly, her face scrunched up, and tears wet her cheeks. "Please take care of yourself," she sobbed, wiping her face with her sleeve.
"Don't worry, I will."
The next moment, he heard a car park in front of the house. Then a door slammed shut and steps sounded toward the front door. Before Mycroft could ring the doorbell, Sherlock had opened the door for his brother. The elder Holmes looked at Sherlock from the bell, puzzled. Then he lowered his already raised arm.
"Let's go, dear brother mine. Vacation," he said, raising his eyebrows.
"I hope you packed my swimsuit," Sherlock replied, grabbing his suitcase.
"Some movers are about to pick up the boxes," Mycroft said to Molly. She nodded. Before she could reply, the older Holmes brother was back in the car.
Sherlock turned to her. He smiled warmly at her. "Thank you, Molly Hooper." Then he leaned down to her, approached her face and pressed his lips briefly against her cheek. "Take care of yourself."
When he looked up, her cheeks were fiery red. She stared at him and was about to say something. But then he went out the door, in the direction of the car. Just before he got in, he turned back to her.
"See you soon."
