"You know, I searched it up."
Sherlock made a noncommittal sound from the back of his throat, pushing his goggles firmly back onto the bridge of his nose. He was sweating – the flat had been unbearably stuffy since the explosion. Something to do with the ventilation, apparently.
Inconvenient.
"I imagine you've searched up quite a few things, John," he finally huffed. "Seeing as you haven't committed all the universe's many truths to permanent memory."
His solution simmered, then puffed out a shockingly malodorous brown cloud.
Fascinating. 15% more potent than he'd expected.
He mentally categorized the reaction, hastily pouring out the excess liquid into the Berzelius beaker before it overflowed.
"Neither have you, you berk," John replied, voice rising on the last word.
"I've learned about the solar system and Madonna and a great deal of her contemporaries at your insistence in case we play that little guessing game again as well as enough bits of useless pop culture trivia to fill the broom cupboard of miscellaneous shame I've recently been forced to create in my mind palace. I am an expert at childcare and have established an entire suite, much less shameful, dedicated to my role as Rosie's godfather."
"That's exactly what I mean, Sherlock," said John calmly.
Sherlock dimly registered the sound of a newspaper rustling, but kept his eyes firmly trained at the bottom of the Berzelius, waiting to observe the rate of particulate settlement at its bottom.
No additional rustling sound followed for another 45 seconds. John had shut the paper, then, not simply skipped past the sports section, which he should have been approaching.
Finished? No, not yet. He couldn't have gotten past C3 in the amount of time he'd been sat, unless his reading speed had inexplicably surpassed Sherlock's own by roughly 2350 wpm within the last 23 hours.
Quite unlikely.
Conclusion? John was rising from his chair earlier than his usual 10:40 am.
Washroom? No, his soft footsteps were gradually increasing in volume, not decreasing. John was approaching him.
"You may want to stand back slightly," Sherlock finally said, bending even closer to the beaker and straining his eyes to see through the fog of his goggles. "I've just produced a rather–"
"–Jesus Christ, Sherlock, that's bloody vile!"
"–foul reaction, John, and have yet to properly ascertain the biological effects of the resulting vapor on the human brain and lungs. Don't worry, it will harmlessly dissipate within three hours, long before Rosie returns from Molly's, but at the moment I'm afraid it's slightly unpredictable. Which was exactly the point, but I am realizing now it may have been inconsiderate of me."
Sherlock finally looked up at John's face, which was displaying his usual exasperation, and forced an apologetic half smile. "Perhaps you should–"
"–Window, ta," finished John quickly, bounding lightly across the floor on the balls of his bare feet to hoist the bottom pane. "In 30-degree weather with faulty ventilation. Ideal."
"Quite," replied Sherlock with a smirk, offhandedly fanning the fumes and suppressing a cough. He brought his fist to his mouth, gulping harshly and allowing saliva to clear his esophagus.
"Aren't you wondering what I searched up? What I was talking about?" John's voice was coming from across the room; he'd clearly decided to remain near their source of fresh (humid, likely equally as toxic) London air. Sherlock spun on his heel to face him, robe swishing and slipping slightly from his right shoulder as gravity pulled it aside.
He didn't mind.
"I rarely deign to wonder, John. Wondering is futile, as the word itself generally does not connote any intention on the part of the wonderer to make an attempt at conclusive discovery. Though in this case, I am quite sure you will tell me."
John's eyes flicked almost imperceptibly to Sherlock's freshly bared chest, then back up again.
Imperceptible. What a useless term for Sherlock to employ when referring to John, even preceded by the word "almost". He would ensure nothing was imperceptible to him about John ever again.
"Sherlock, I searched up sociopaths. And psychopaths. Bit of an unclear distinction sometimes."
Sherlock shrugged, facing away from John momentarily to record the additional settling of sediment in the Berzelius; the original, fume-producing solution now inutile, he poured it unceremoniously down the drain. It was highly unlikely to corrode the metal of the pipes significantly enough to affect functionality, but should it, that would prove a vital piece of knowledge. And, admittedly, perhaps a bit of a headache for the plumbers.
"High-functioning, don't forget. Interesting reading, was it?"
"High–" John let out a frustrated groan. "Sherlock, that's bollocks. A bunch of bollocks. As if you could be considered socially high-functioning. But that's beside the point. You're not a sociopath. You never have been. You know that. You've always known that." Sherlock wasn't currently looking at John, though – by his tone of voice – he could visualize John's head thrown back, redness tinging his cheeks, mouth widened in mild frustration, lips slightly upturned to indicate impending, incredulously huffed laughter. It was a common enough reaction he elicited from his blogger.
Predictable.
Comfortingly so.
Sherlock's stomach roiled a bit, but he supposed this conversation had been inevitable. In fact, it had taken roughly five years longer to occur than he had originally anticipated.
"Do I know it, John?" Sherlock asked flippantly. A challenge. Not an argument.
Instead of answering, John collapsed into his chair and opened his laptop. "You're not charming," he asserted. "At least not in the superficial sense. That's usually something reserved for psychopaths, to be fair – that's what Sally always thought you were."
"I can sometimes be quite–"
"Sherlock, no. You don't make an effort to ingratiate yourself to the expectations of others."
"Appalling," said Sherlock in response.
"You don't mimic the reactions and expressions of those around you to fit in," continued John, reading from his obvious list: Microsoft Word, copy-and-pasted messily from various sources; Sherlock could gather this by the rate at which John scrolled, clicked, and squinted at the screen of his outdated computer.
"Except on–" Sherlock cut in, gradually making his way closer to where John was sat. He yanked off his goggles, shaking out his curls so they settled properly.
"–Except on cases, right," continued John. "Though you're not as good at that as you think. And, well, you do that to solve murders, not to maliciously deceive. It's not part of your daily routine. Your behavior doesn't align with what most would call normal, but it's not because of any actual lack of emotion or empathy, it's because of–"
"–My superior intellect, yes," Sherlock interjected.
John breathed out a light laugh, eyebrows raising. "Right."
"There was Janine," offered Sherlock casually, aware he was entering somewhat dangerous territory.
John sucked in a breath. "Yes, there was Janine. A close one, that. But still – not for your own benefit. To stop Magnussen, ultimately. Sociopaths are said to be incapable of living any sort of organized, normal life. Of respecting others. Psychopaths overly compensate and live on the opposite spectrum; a guise of perfection. You're neither. You are perfectly capable of listening when you are motivated. When you care. Of consistency – consulting on cases. Because you care. The chaos of this flat sometimes is because of–"
"–My superior intellect, yes," Sherlock interjected again, filling his cheeks with air and raising his eyebrows. He allowed the air to rush out in a small pop.
"Right," John repeated, eyes shining. "But you've started cleaning, now that Rosie's here. And only doing your dangerous experiments when she's not, like this past weekend through this morning. Because you care."
"Fine, John," said Sherlock, a bit of an exasperated lilt to his voice. He had found his way to his own chair, across from John, and sat with a touch more gravitas than normal. Drama queen? John had called him that once. So be it. He crossed his legs, laying his arms elegantly on top of the armrests. He still hadn't bothered to cinch his robe.
John's eyes rose to meet his, twinkling a little. He licked his bottom lip – blatantly, oh so blatantly – then coughed. To hide whatever that had been, clearly. "Fumes," he muttered.
Sherlock responded with a small, tight-lipped grin. He imagined his eyes crinkled at the sides in the way he'd noticed John responded favorably to. Fumes. The odor had almost completely dissipated after the window had been opened, at least at this distance from the experiment.
They both understood this, but left it unsaid.
"You're not the life of the party," John said after a beat or two. "Not a social butterfly."
"Would you in any way like me to stoop so low?" responded Sherlock, eyebrows raised.
John ignored him, carefully considering the next bullet point on his screen.
"You aren't motivated by a fear of being discovered for what you are," he read, then glanced up again at Sherlock. "It's the exact opposite – you insist on broadcasting who you think you are to everyone. Or what you want people to believe you are. Sociopaths and psychopaths don't want anyone to know that, Sherlock, lest it gets in the way of their generally selfish goals and interpersonal manipulations. People would distance themselves from them, and those people could not then be taken advantage of for wealth, power, influence, or even abuse. They pretend they aren't sociopaths or psychopaths. That's almost exclusively what they do. Not to dehumanize them, right, but there are interviews with real sociopaths and psychopaths, yeah? They admit purely selfish motivations, even if they eventually realize they don't, at least not intellectually, wish to physically or psychologically harm others. And some of them do, at that."
"Fascinating," Sherlock said, with a bit of well-positioned dramatic flair and emphasis. "Would you not consider my motivations selfish?"
Again, dangerous territory. The Fall. Amongst other things. It had mostly been hashed out, but…
Well.
John widened his eyes a bit, meeting Sherlock's own. Apologetic. He looks apologetic.
Why? Sherlock didn't like not knowing why. He didn't want to miss anything with John anymore. Nothing should be, would be, imperceptible about him. Nothing usually was – except when it came to this. Matters between the both of them. Emotions, sentiment. Difficult; he knew something remained different about his brain outside of its obvious intelligence. But, alas – existent.
He frowned a little, his instinct when he was momentarily stumped, then realized. Ah. John once considered me so. Irrelevant now; things were fine.
They were fine, right?
His eyes roved on and around John, intentionally deducing his newly reinstated flatmate for the first time in at least – five? – yes, five – weeks. And two days. Since John had shown up at the doorstep of 221B with Rosie and a resigned shrug.
He'd just take three seconds. John would never notice.
One of his older white cotton sleeping tees. Wrinkled, not creased as usual. He's been wearing it for the past 22 hours.
Cuticles – dry. Two hangnails. Fingernails freshly cut. He's been typing. It's easier to type with nails trimmed to the close. Dry skin doesn't slide on the keys or leave slick residue upon them. No moisturizer. Frequent handwashing after the keyboard became oily from his fingertips.
The blog? No, not since their last case. Conclusion: his ridiculous research required more extensive typing than casual searches necessitate. Leaving comments? Gleaning opinions from others? For God's sake.
Skin sallow but hydrated, eyes bright, freshly-shaven. Not depressed; sleep-deprived by between one- and two- hours last night due to the slightly pronounced darkness of his undereye circles.
"Would you stop deducing me? I can see your eyes moving, you know. It's extremely noticeable, despite how sly you think you're being." John shut his laptop, placing it on the side table.
"Fine," replied Sherlock, rolling his eyes. "Please continue your meticulously researched analysis of my personality."
There was a beat of silence; John looked rather lost for a moment, eyes focused again on Sherlock's bare chest. Sherlock felt a strange stab of… something.
"I believe you were about to inform me of my selfishness," Sherlock helpfully volunteered.
John's mouth was now hanging open a bit. He glanced up at some invisible target to his top right; Sherlock almost followed it with his own eyes before he recognized John's strategy of visually deflecting in order to gather his thoughts.
He'd wait patiently, then. He coughed a little; a slight rancid taste still resided in the back of his throat from the fumes. A bead of sweat dripped into his eye. He peered down at his chest – his silk robe was still open, allowing some blessed relief from the humidity. Maybe John was concertedly avoiding the lingering glances they'd been gradually allowing themselves lately. Barely four minutes ago, even. Understandable, he supposed, considering John's situation, though he'd admit some frustration that came with prolonging what was obviously inevitable. Ridiculous, he was just as at fault for that.
Perhaps he was wrong. It did happen, sometimes. There was quite an interesting bit of peeling paint on the ceiling corner upon which John had now focused his attentions, after all.
No, wrong again.
THINK.
My chest. Talk of sociopaths and psychopaths. Selfishness. Lingering tension. Of more than one type, Sherlock quite believed.
Ah. My scar.
Sherlock quietly pulled his robe up and over his right shoulder, covering the area just off to the side of his breastplate bone. It was still lying open, mostly on the left, so he hoped his subtle move hadn't been an obvious acknowledgement of his deduction. John hated remembering his scar. Sherlock knew this, despite never having been told. He had become accustomed to seeing flashes of it, obviously, but Sherlock supposed their current topic of conversation exacerbated things.
No need to discuss it.
John met his eye. He'd noticed anyway.
Of course he had.
"No, Sherlock," he finally answered, his voice low and insistent. "Not selfish. Never that. I– I admit I haven't always– always seen that. Yeah. How can I– How could I have ever– when you have that, that bloody terrible scar, the bloody awful reminder of… well."
"John," Sherlock whispered, placing his hands on his knees and leaning forward a bit. "John, we've talked about this. It is what it is."
John gulped, eyes now directed at his own lap and hands braced on the sides of his chair. "Do you think that she… God, Sherlock, I loved her, she's gone, I want to keep the image of her in my mind that I treasured for Rosie's sake, but I think I need to– do you think she… all of this, as I say it…"
"Do you want an honest answer?" replied Sherlock just as lowly. Gently.
John firmly set his jaw, intently meeting Sherlock's gaze. "Sherlock, was my wife a sociopath?"
"I am not a psychologist, but I came to that as the likeliest conclusion some time ago. Psychopath would be the more accurate descriptor."
John nodded firmly, but did not divert his gaze this time. "Some time ago. So I was right – you know that you're not one. Neither, I mean."
"I'm not, no," confirmed Sherlock. "You are quite right. Though I've forced myself to come close, particularly in my younger years. Part of me admired that in Mary. I have always rather wanted to be. Thought my intellect would allow me to be, if I applied myself fully to the endeavor. Sociopaths can be made, psychopaths are thought to be born. Abuse, generally. Self-imposition, almost certainly not. Though the drugs helped."
He expected this to elicit a baffled response from John. It had baffled him for the majority of his life, after all, how fervently he'd clung to that notion; Mycroft had even encouraged it. Though he must not have believed it, Sherlock had more recently realized. Mycroft was, himself, another example of a failed attempt at self-formation into some form of psychopathy (at his level of government, the term applied more than sociopath), though rather more successfully in most ways than Sherlock had demonstrated himself to be. He'd always been less emotional. Less volatile. Most probably due to his six additional IQ points (as measured when they were mere children, though Sherlock grudgingly admitted to himself that this was likely still an accurate disparity between them).
"Victor," said John simply.
"Yes, that must have been it," agreed Sherlock. "Bit of a weight off to find that out. Why I'd been so affected by Redbeard. Not that children cannot love their pets, of course, but this seemed rather extreme. I understand now. I hadn't stopped her, and perhaps I could have if I could have just seen. Had I not been distracted by life's frivolities and pesky feelings. I could have saved him. Spared his parents the heartache. Preserved the friendship that was so dear to me. Even then, I was exceptionally bright. She set a puzzle she thought I'd be able to solve, and she was the brightest of us three, unburdened by empathy and emotion. I had to change. So I did. And then promptly deleted why.
"I couldn't accept guilt I was not supposed to have felt. It would weaken me. But this process was shoddily completed in my young mind, I suppose. I was silent for days. Weeks, maybe. Barely aware of my surroundings. Reprogramming, perhaps, before I ever had a mind palace. After, all I knew was that I felt upset. That I was missing pieces. Mycroft's Redbeard story sufficed to explain it. It wasn't instant, my self-imposed sociopathy. I struggled. I suffered. Mycroft helped mold me. I discovered drugs. Honed my skills. Found an outlet that allowed me to atone for unknown past failures, to fill the void inside of me that continued to expand. Made myself more and more impossible for anyone to like me. To truly understand me. For that, John, would have been the largest threat to my hollow façade."
"You destroyed yourself," John stated.
"I solved hundreds of cases," Sherlock rebutted, only slightly defensively. "Who's to say what's worth it."
"You solved them with emotions, Sherlock. Because of them, really. You weren't all that good at hiding them, either."
"Good enough for many, apparently," said Sherlock lightly. "Donovan, in particular. I should really thank her for allowing my charade to continue, but it ultimately didn't do me any favors."
John gulped. "No, no it didn't. Haven't much spoken to her since, actually."
"I know." Sherlock's reply was soft, tender. He had inadvertently betrayed his gratitude, then. Nothing to be done for it. John's eyes widened a little. Affection. He likely isn't even aware of the obvious tell.
John shook his head in disbelief. "Unbelievable. Admirable, but unbelievable, Sherlock. Yet you kept it up, that lie, even after you came back. Came back different. I think we all saw that. You'd been different. You've been different. Why, then? Hmm?"
"Being away had made it," Sherlock coughed, disguising his sudden need to blink away some moisture. "Impossible for me to discount my true nature anymore. I had to accept that a sociopath wouldn't have jumped. Wouldn't have allowed their reputation to be unraveled to spare the lives of their friends. Wouldn't have had friends. Moriarty had known I would fall, genius that he was. Even had I not anticipated– had I no escape route– I would have done it, jumped to my death. Obvious. And I couldn't ignore that I– that I missed–"
John met his eye, though his vision of John's face had become a little watery.
Sherlock cleared his throat. "–Of course I missed you. I missed everyone, John. Even Mycroft. Even Anderson. Yet no one more than you. I ached with it. Physically. But that ache– I believe it kept me alive. It gave me hope, purpose. I decided to embrace it, at least as much as the other… innate anomalies of my personality and intellect allowed for. But I'd already done damage, you must understand. Hurt others, but the sort of hurt cushioned by the knowledge that I hadn't meant to, not really. That it wasn't my fault. That it wasn't personal. It made them feel better, I suppose. Sometimes I do still have problems understanding those things; I think you know that. But I don't enjoy being the source of pain, John. I couldn't– I couldn't admit that it had just been me. For their sakes. As irrational as that may sound. I'd even wondered… deigned to wonder, imagine that… about your life. Where you were. I'd picture you in my mind. You'd tell me to continue on. I needed that, but I didn't always believe I would be able to. To survive, I mean to say. And I didn't want to give you the hope contacting you would have provided only to lose me again. Though I had– I had still quite underestimated your own– feelings. Lack of experience on my part, due to every fault and decision of my own. A grave oversight, John."
Oh no, John's lower lip was trembling. Almost imperceptibly.
Almost.
It was silent for a moment. This wasn't entirely new information to John; Sherlock had previously had the chance to explain his motivations just after everything occurred with Eurus. But there had been less feeling involved. Less emotion, more of the facts. There was nothing for it. Inevitable. It had been inevitable.
Then, finally…
"Not a very sociopathic thing to say, Sherlock." The left corner of his mouth tilted slightly upwards.
"Decidedly not," Sherlock agreed tightly.
"And Lestrade, Mrs. Hudson… they've never believed you were a sociopath at all." John was soldiering forward, then. Storing everything away Sherlock had said for later. All the better, for now at least.
"No," confirmed Sherlock. "I don't believe Mrs. Hudson ever even knew that was something I'd proclaimed of myself until more recently. I'd never bothered with convincing her. And Lestrade… Greg," Sherlock breathed in deeply, momentarily closing his eyes and tilting his head back. "Greg had seen me at my absolute lowest, John. He knew. Though he'd never reveal that to anyone else at the Yard."
"I'm sorry that I didn't know," said John.
"You did know, John. And you understood me. Understand me still. Better than anyone ever has. It had just been something– convenient to tell yourself, after. I take full responsibility. I am not an easy man."
John smiled then. Crinkly eyes and all. "You know, Mycroft told me once about your heart. Downstairs at Speedy's. We talked about The Woman. That you might have felt–"
Sherlock raised his eyebrows. Back to this again. "Intellectual curiosity? Fascination, a potential sense of mutual understanding, exceptional for me to come across, particularly while otherwise distracted during a case?"
"–Something like that, perhaps," said John. "She does still text." Sherlock didn't miss the tightness with which John uttered that last word. His reaction to Irene's texts had long confused Sherlock, until it hadn't. John had not, then, reached the same level of clarity.
"From time to time. As we've recently discussed, John." Risky. That had been right after Mary.
"And, Sherlock? You're not a sociopath, nor a psychopath. Okay. So do you– love, I mean Sherlock, if you're in love–" He's trying. Suffering while doing so.
"I am not that sort of man," Sherlock said, eyes focused on John, whose own eyes were focused upon his clenched hands. Seems he didn't really want to see Sherlock's face as he confirmed such a monumental romantic deduction.
John's shoulders slumped a little. Not even almost imperceptible. Obvious.
"Nor is she that sort of woman," Sherlock added. John's head raised back up. Hope?
"She… initially mistook our intellectual attraction for romantic, I believe. Perhaps I got momentarily wrapped up in the sense of camaraderie she offered. I am easily confused by those things, John. I admit that I was flustered. And we were both taken aback by the mutual understanding we had reached with one another. A rarity for us both, indeed. Though I can think of one other time I've felt similarly. (Bold insertion; John's reactions have thus far indicated that such risk may eventually pay off.) But as I once told you, that is staunchly, firmly, not my area."
"Love?" John weakly offered. Ah. My comment did not go unnoticed. John hasn't missed anything today.
"Women," Sherlock amended, with a tight grin. "And she is very much in love with her partner, last I heard. Her female partner."
There were a few beats of silence. The air suddenly felt more humid. Sherlock could feel beads of sweat forming unpleasantly at his upper lip. John was flushed, forehead shining. He swiped at it with the back of his hand, grimacing before he wiped it across his lap.
Neither of them made an effort to halt the conversation, to get some water. Tea. It would break the spell, Sherlock thought, quite illogically. Regardless, there they were.
"Jesus, Sherlock, there's so much you've said that I don't want to… that I can't ignore, but…"
John crossed his left hand over his eyes, leaning back in his chair. Sherlock heard his throat clear. Indistinguishable muttering.
He waited patiently.
John finally looked up at him, eyes pink from the pressure he'd exerted on them with his hand. And perhaps for another reason. "I can almost sort it all, Sherlock, I almost can, but why – why would she jump in front of you? If she was a socio- a psychopath? Why?" John wasn't crying – not yet – but his voice was rough. He closed his eyes and took a deep breath, then looked at Sherlock for an answer.
Soldiering forward again, then. They'd come back to all the rest eventually. This was clearly the crux of the matter. John's true motivation for this entire conversation, though he'd successfully lied to himself about that; no need for such extensive research about Sherlock. John had always understood him, deep down. Gotten there in the end, at least.
"You've done the research," Sherlock reminded him, steepling his hands below his chin as he focused. He had to tread this subject carefully. "Surely you've discovered that sociopaths and psychopaths aren't necessarily… incapable of forming bonds and connections. Long-term relationships, even. Care and concern for others, though never as far as actual empathy. Appreciation for what platonic or romantic partners can mutually offer one another and a desire to retain that connection. Love, in their own minds; their particular version of it. An awareness that hurting the object of this love would not benefit their own self-interests and an accompanying desire to protect. Sociopathy and psychopathy do not equate to evil, nor even to innate maliciousness. And they exist within quite a large spectrum that may or may not incorporate violence."
John nodded, but he didn't look convinced. His forehead wrinkled; both corners of his mouth turned down slightly. Troubled by something. "So are you telling me you believe that was it? That even though she was a psychopath, Sherlock – a PSYCHOPATH – throwing herself in front of a bullet was entirely motivated by true care for me and Rosie? For you?"
Sherlock sighed. "In part, I believe," he tentatively settled upon. "Though perhaps not for me. But I did care for her, always."
John clenched his jaw, eyes narrowing. His forehead was beading in sweat. "And the other part?"
Sherlock wiped his own brow. Was he sweating nervously, or just from the oppressive stuffiness? Likely both. "John–"
"–I need to know."
"All of what I am about to say is at least 60% conjecture," Sherlock began. 20% conjecture at best, but this is the sort of lie I've learned can be considered acceptable. "And I do not intend to change your feelings of your wife. I did not wish her dead, and still blame myself in many ways despite your forgiveness."
John was looking down at his hands. "I know," he said firmly, though quietly. "Though it wasn't your fault. Please, just tell me."
Ah. This was not something Sherlock wanted to discuss, not ever. The only possible effect was hurting John. Pointless. But he could not lie. Not anymore.
"Most mothers – new mothers in particular – would not have done what Mary did, John. Even had they loved the person at the other end of that gun. It's almost a universal truth that new mothers don't love anyone more than their child. Neurotypical new mothers, I suppose. Discounting the common effects of postpartum mental illnesses. And Mary certainly didn't love me. She loved you, in her mind, as much as was possible for her. She was attached to you. She enjoyed the life she had with you. She didn't want to lose you. But a wife who loved her husband in the way I think most people understand, well. She wouldn't deprive him of his spouse and the mother of his child in one fell swoop. Even if it were to save his best friend. Even if she thought it was to settle a score, to assuage guilt. And a mother who truly loved her child wouldn't leave, not if she had any choice in the matter." Getting to the hardest part first made it easier for Sherlock to breathe. To concentrate.
John hissed, sucking in a huge breath of air; he clutched at his knees, so tightly his knuckles were turning white, and looked up at the ceiling. But he didn't interrupt.
"Even assuaging guilt is… problematic as a motivating factor," Sherlock continued. "Not only had you forgiven her for– for, ahem, shooting me (a resultant groan; John truly hated that reminder) – but she did not carry any guilt. She was not sorry for what she had done. Psychopaths, sociopaths… they don't feel sorry for their own actions. They don't regret them, not unless the outcome hadn't been what they desired for themselves. Mary had said sorry after she pulled the trigger, but her face hadn't convincingly displayed that sentiment. She did not hesitate. She attempted to intimidate me in my hospital bed, hoping she could keep me silent. She did not apologize to me after. She did not inquire about my health, not at any point. Even after we were friendly again. She had nothing to atone for in her view."
Sherlock paused, waiting for John's reaction. That had been… unpleasant. John sighed, again meeting Sherlock's eye. He pursed his lips and furiously blinked away forming tears. "We're coming back to all that one day, Sherlock. We are. But please. Please. Go on. I need to hear this."
Another deep breath. Needs must.
"There is the argument to be made that we were there at that aquarium because of her, because of her past, so she was merely taking responsibility. But, again, I think you'll find that out of character for her. Not impossible, admittedly. Conjecture, John. Please remember."
"Sherlock."
"Okay, John. What I believe – and Mycroft agrees – is that she was afraid. Of what would have happened had she let me die. Mycroft's tolerance had been wearing thin with her. He was looking for any reason, John. Any reason that would allow him to overrule my supplication that he let her be. Had Norbury killed me for defending her… I believe you can imagine the consequences. Mycroft wouldn't have shown mercy.
"And he'd have the rest of the British government behind him, not that he'd even need them to be. They'd be afraid to let her live as she'd been. All it would have taken would have been one internet sleuth, one whistleblower, to expose a trusted PA's connection to the assassination unit whose employment of Mary had ultimately led to my murder. An embarrassment, as well, not to have identified treason amongst their own team. Norbury was far from an integral figure, but what she wasn't was anonymous. Every member of security services knew her, John. Could be connected to her actions. A murder of a civilian in the eyes of the public, such as Mary, can be swept more easily under the rug. However, even with Mycroft's power, my murder would have attracted a great deal of attention. Prying. You saw what happened the first time I died."
Crying. John was crying now. "Sherlock, this is all– it's too–"
Sherlock's eyes were scratchy. His heart was racing. He was hot, uncomfortable. Terrified of mishandling this delicate situation. But John needed to understand.
Sherlock rose from his seat, walking calmly over to stand behind John's chair and placing a hand gently on his right shoulder. Slightly damp from perspiration. He'd recently learned the value of physical comfort. "John, you mustn't blame her. She made the logical choice. If you were to die either way, how would you have preferred to do it? Only one of her options allowed her to be the hero. To leave a positive legacy behind for Rosie. To fit within the narrative of the video she'd made far prior that helped cement her carefully constructed new persona. To allow her to take credit for– all that may follow between us. Image is important to psychopaths, John. Reputation. But it was also to minimize your pain; you lost one of us, not both of us. In that way, her actions were admirable."
Sherlock squeezed John's right shoulder, then, gently massaging the bottom part of his trapezius with his thumb. John sniffled a bit into his hand, then wiped at his eyes. Steeling himself.
"Did she mean to kill you, Sherlock?" John's muscles tensed; Sherlock could feel them tightening through his shirt. He was still staring straight ahead at Sherlock's freshly vacated chair. "Tell me the truth this time. I don't need more protecting."
"John…"
"Sherlock, I'm a doctor. You flatlined. The spot she chose was in no way a safe bet for your survival. Needing to call an ambulance before she knew I'd find you is proof of that; if all you told me that night is true, she had absolutely no issue at all cutting your chances so fine."
"I'm not entirely sure she did call the ambulance, John, or whether they happened to already be close by; I never bothered to suss that one out. I wasn't sure I wanted to know, to be honest. I have my moments of weakness. I'm not immune to the feeling of betrayal."
A resolute nod. John still stared directly forward. Sherlock brought his left hand up to John's other shoulder, now in the position to give him a full shoulder massage. To feel the furrows of the bullet wound that had brought them together. To detect the subtle indications of John's muscles relaxing their tension. To keep him physically tethered, reminded that he was cared for. That it would be all right.
"I don't know, John. That's the truth. I forgave her, regardless. Though I tend to believe it was all about… plausible deniability, particularly with Magnussen gaining even one more piece of leverage on her. Calling the ambulance would have been part of that. If I lived, she could claim exactly the story I supplied for her. Buy herself time, beforehand, to regroup. But she knew that was unlikely. Instead, she envisaged you would be otherwise occupied in hospital with me, ultimately watching me die a slower death than a headshot would have afforded.
"Had you instead found me dead, John, shot in the head, well – your first move would have been to inspect the building for my killer. You may have discovered her. This way, she had sufficient time to leave, change her clothes, rid herself of any evidence, and prepare for her likely departure. After eventually re-attempting to take Magnussen's life, of course. I do believe it's true that she didn't want to see you framed for that. Though – well. The less optimistic version is that your connections to New Scotland Yard would have only made you a temporary suspect; her marriage to you would have placed her in uncomfortably close proximity to the whole affair, particularly with what I may testify if I survived her plan to shoot me after she knew I'd seen her face. Or the deductions she knew I'd make should I experience some rare form of traumatic amnesia or failed to register her identity prior to being shot. The perfume alone, John. Better to postpone Magnussen's murder entirely. Though my survival ultimately must have been a surprise to her. She was not averse to finishing the job at Leinster Gardens; she needed to, really, to ensure I never informed you of her true nature. Likely would have, had you not been there and had I not projected her face onto the side of the building. I'm sorry, but I believe that's as much certainty as we're likely to get."
John put his head into his hands, shoulders shaking. Sherlock stayed put, thumbs rubbing comforting circles below John's neck. Felt the beads of sweat as they rolled down his pink skin. Two minutes and fifty-three seconds passed. Then–
"–What brought you back, Sherlock? After flatlining? I mean did– is that even possible? I'd never have thought so, not from a doctor's perspective. But you shouldn't be alive, so." John twisted his head to the side, shuffling up a bit to shift some of his weight onto his right thigh and to look up at Sherlock, still standing behind him. He reached across his body, placing his left hand upon Sherlock's right, which was still resting on top of John's shoulder.
This is the moment, then.
"You," said Sherlock, voice low and gravelly. Nervous. I'm nervous. "It was you, John. In my mind palace… I was dying. Allowing it to happen. Allowing the version of Moriarty I'd shut away in there to taunt me. I kept seeing Mary shooting me in the heart, in her wedding dress, replaying the moment in my mind. Even for someone like me, the symbolism my brain was offering up was not lost. I almost wanted to die. It would have been a relief. But then Moriarty's taunts became about you… about you being in danger. I couldn't leave you. So I… dragged myself out of the padded room we'd been sharing. Up the stairs. Out."
"You love me," John whispered. "You– I knew that, you've told me before, but I mean… you love me. I'm the one deducing now. Everything you've told me today… it's the only…"
Sherlock was quite taken aback by what happened next. He felt a deep pang in his chest. Inexplicable; is that not a myth? Tears welled from nowhere. His legs buckled; suddenly he was on his knees beside John's chair, staring into blue eyes. Deducing nothing; letting himself feel. Warm. Comfortably warm. Overwhelmed. Overcome. Terrified.
"Since the start, John," he managed. How? How did I form those words? My brain isn't cooperating. Instinct.
Warm lips on his. Warm tears on his face. Whose, he had no idea. Warm hands running through his hair. He hadn't even seen John lean in, and yet there they were. Heaven. Bliss. Kisses on his forehead, on his cheeks. Warm arms around his shoulders, pulling him in. Halting a bit as they ran over the multitude of grooves across his back, then pulling him in even more tightly.
"I'm sorry, Sherlock, I'm so sorry, I love you, I'm sorry…"
Sherlock couldn't speak. He was making some kind of odd choking sound. It should have been embarrassing, really. Shameful. But it wasn't. He tightened his hands around John's back, burying his face into his chest. He'd never done this before. Hugged someone like this. Been hugged by someone like this. Been comforted.
John was so warm. That word again. White sleep shirt stuck to his skin in places with perspiration. Heady, familiar scent. Home. Safe.
Lips on his again. His mouth opened reflexively. He moaned. John's tongue caressed his own, licked his lower lip lightly before entering his mouth again. Their lips pursed together, then, gently holding the position. Sherlock's hands came up from around John's back to cradle his head.
Their foreheads met. Sherlock took a breath.
"Never be sorry again, John," he breathed out, thumbs running down the sides of John's face. Their warm breaths were intermingling. John's eyes were pressed shut, squeezing out tears. "We are here now. We have Rosie. You came back to me. Oh, how I love you."
"I hurt you," murmured John.
"And I, you," he replied. "Yet here we are."
John pulled him up, then. Up off his knees. They were standing. Their arms had found their way back around one another's bodies.
Sherlock kissed him hungrily, their mouths opening together to deepen their connection. His fingers skimmed down John's back to the bottom of his shirt; John was gently pushing Sherlock's robe down from his shoulders. Sherlock lifted the damp piece of fabric up from John's skin; he wanted the shirt off. Fresh – humid, but fresh – air from the open window hit his own skin as his silk robe finally pooled around his ankles. John paused in his own ministrations to cross his arms in front of his chest and help Sherlock remove the offensive item of clothing that still separated them from one another. They were both still wearing pajama bottoms, but this was enough for now. John's fingertips fluttered deliciously down Sherlock's chest, making him shiver despite the heat; he carefully avoided Sherlock's gunshot scar. He knew the area still smarted, on occasion. John had yet to see the ones on Sherlock's back, but he knew they were there; he'd felt them earlier. There was time for that discussion later.
Their lips collided, over and over again. Sherlock couldn't catch his breath.
"Yoo hoo! Tea!"
John's mouth immediately stopped moving against his, though they didn't separate from one another. Frozen. Not much point in moving, really. And he rather didn't want to.
Sherlock had not even heard her footsteps on the stairs. Unprecedented. He supposed he could be excused, just this once.
The front door swung open with Mrs. Hudson's well-placed kick, as she was carrying her usual tray, piled with more than just the teapot and cups. "I'll just go ahead and leave this–"
She looked up. Sherlock's arms were still loosely flung around John's waist. They were both without shirts, lips surely red and swollen from kissing. John's palms were resting on Sherlock's chest.
"Ooooh, goodness dears, I had no intention of interrupting anything!" Gleeful. She's gleeful.
Sherlock bit his bottom lip; he found himself feeling pleased at her reaction despite his mortification and slight frustration at their being interrupted. He was grateful his back was facing away from the door; Mrs. Hudson had not seen his scars, nor was he ever planning on allowing her to. John huffed out an incredulous laugh, doing that thing again where he inexplicably looked up somewhere at the ceiling. Not at the peeling paint, Sherlock now knew.
"But how wonderful, how wonderful! Oh, I don't know what to say! After everything, boys, so much dreadful business, I could just–" The squeal she then emitted hit Sherlock's eardrums with some force.
Now that she'd placed the tray on the table, she was actually clapping her hands together. For God's sake. But Sherlock realized he was smiling. He never would have in a moment like this, not before. Not that he'd ever had any moments like this before. He met John's eye again. His wide grin – crinkling eyes and all – surely mirrored Sherlock's own.
Sherlock had never been quite so happy.
"Mrs. Hudson, I believe John and I–"
He was cut short by Mrs. Hudson coughing, fanning the front of her face with her hand and peering incredulously down at the offensive brown liquid in the Berzelius Sherlock had left there earlier. Interesting – the fumes are still strong in proximity to the experiment, despite having dissipated quite readily with the introduction of the air provided by the window. Noted.
"Good heavens, Sherlock, what is it this time–"
"Ahem, Mrs. Hudson, it's probably best you step away from that," said John. "Sherlock's been up to something again."
Sherlock could hear the smile in John's words. Feel his thumbs rubbing circles below his collarbones.
"It's likely no longer harmful, if it had ever been," Sherlock felt the need to clarify. "Ruined anyway. After the reaction, I was meant to observe the rate of particulate settlement every two minutes to determine the strength of the resultant molecular bond between the elements that comprised the new compound. I am hopeful about its potential topical uses on wounds. But I… was distracted."
He found he could not bring himself to be disappointed by this.
"As you say, dear. I suppose I will just–" Her eyes flicked again to John and Sherlock, still loath to step away from one another, still stupidly grinning. "Oh, I just can't believe it!" She was wringing her hands together. "My boys, you've made me so happy."
"What were you saying, then, Mrs. Hudson? That you would just–" Sherlock inquired. Impatience was now getting to him. John's skin was still tantalizing him beneath his fingertips.
"Oh okay, I can take a hint, I'll just be leaving! Enjoy yourselves, boys. You've got hours before Molly comes with Rosie, after all! It's quite stuffy in here, though, I'll grab the rotating fan before they arrive. I'll knock first this time! Toodles!"
The door finally closed.
John sighed lightly, leaning his head into Sherlock's chest. Sherlock settled his head on top of John's own, tightening his arms around John's lower back. They fit together; they always had.
"Inevitable," commented Sherlock.
"What, Mrs. Hudson?" responded John, the hint of a laugh evident in his tone. Sherlock could feel the vibrations of his voice box on his own chest as John spoke, warm breath fanning across his skin.
"Yes, though not just that. Us. And this, John, what you've been wondering since you first touched my back. Since you first heard me recount some of my time… away."
Silence, then. The comforting pressure of John's head lifted from his chest.
Gentle compressions, explorations. Warm, calloused hands skimming across his scars. Tenderly, but no longer haltingly. Hitched breaths coming from John. Upset. He's upset.
"There is nothing to say, John. Nothing to feel badly about."
"Sherlock, I need to see," John said wetly. "Inevitable, right?"
Sherlock dropped his hands from around John's waist, immediately missing the contact (warm, so warm), but this was important. Inevitable, yes. He wasn't bothered about the scars, not really. Unpleasant though the memories connected to them were. Admittedly, however, he did not go out of his way in the mornings to twist around to see them in the mirror. They were behind him, in all senses of the word. He turned around, allowing John to see for himself.
Holding his breath, Sherlock envisaged the sight his blogger (his partner) was now taking in. There were exactly eleven red, raised scars crisscrossing the expanse of his entire back, some significantly longer and deeper than others: those that represented places where the whip hit the same place more than once. A few thinner, silvery white scars from stab wounds; a few more deep gouges cut from his flesh. Three, he believed. At least five small, round scars from the butts of cigarettes. They'd spared his chest only due to the angle at which he'd been hanging; his back offered easier access. Sherlock was grateful for that, at least. He felt empathy for John's plight – needing to look, to see. He'd not know what to do with himself were their situations reversed.
He registered John's hitched breath, his sniffling, and quickly turned around. "That's quite enough of that, John. I'm sorry, there was no avoiding you seeing them. I know it's… unpleasant."
John's eyes were red-rimmed as Sherlock finally met his gaze again, but his clenched jaw also indicated… Anger. Fury, in fact. "Sherlock, what they did to you– I hope, god I hope that they're–"
"Mycroft ensured that, John. He pretended flippancy upon finding me, but I do believe he was rather… well. He retaliated."
John clenched his jaw, nodding. Sherlock placed his hands back on John's shoulders, gradually trying to pull him back in. To feel his warm skin beneath his fingertips.
"Then I tackled you," John abruptly groaned, pulling at his short, graying hair. Sherlock broke his hold on John to intercept his hands, gently prying them away from his scalp and settling them around his own body. That was better. Back to embracing. He would never tire of this. John's body relaxed a bit in his arms.
"Quite understandably, yes," replied Sherlock, placing a kiss to the top of John's head. "I'd had some time to recover by then, John. I was heavily bandaged underneath that suit. Despite the impending terrorist threat that brought me back, Mycroft insisted upon a proper amount of time in hospital. Please, none of this is to place guilt upon you. It was just–"
"–Inevitable?" finished John, looking back up at him.
"Yes," breathed Sherlock. He leaned in to kiss John, feeling himself melting from inside at the warmth the action provided. He'd never known it could be like that. "Yes, John. And now we can move forward."
"Together," confirmed John.
Sherlock smiled. "Together."
