Sherlock groans as they walk into the fair. Kids run amuck, lights flicker and flash everywhere and loud nostalgic music plays near each ride that they pass. Molly giggles happily and hangs onto Sherlock's arm, a childlike innocence in her eyes, and her face awestruck by the sight.
"Aw Sherlock, don't be so grumpy, fairs are supposed to be fun! Look at all the rides and the games, and the food! Cotton candy, fried dough, popcorn, hotdogs. There must be /something/ you like!", she grins.
"Yes...you", he smirks and peeks down at her playfully. "I promised you we would come and that I wouldn't complain too much. So here we are. Today is your day."
"You did promise me that, didn't you? But I also want you to have fun. You compare yourself to a kid sometimes, so c'mon. I think you can let your inner child out for a while and enjoy the fair. You can be cold-hearted Mr. Detective man tomorrow."
Sherlock snorts softly and looks into her eyes. "How do you always do that?"
"Do what?"
"Make me feel...lighter. Like the weight on my shoulders just disappears when you want it to. I'd say you have the magic touch if I believed in magic."
Molly rolls her eyes and slides her fingers between his, holding his hand. "I don't know exactly, but I'd guess it has something to do with the fact that you allow yourself to love me now", she smiles brightly, the soft creases by her eyes showing her upcoming middle age.
Sherlock traces them gently and fondly as they watch people go by with their big families and busy working lives.
"Yeah I-I should probably begin some kind of skincare aging regimen. Long hours in a very bright morgue and paying too close attention to autopsies has probably not done any favors for how I'm progressing...I'll be thirty-seven next month. Which is crazy because I still feel like I'm twenty-seven."
"You don't need to change anything, Molly. You're beautiful as you are. I love the little things about you. It took a long time for me to appreciate the small things, but I'm glad you've proven to me how good they can be. Hell, I'm forty, I've got lines too but that doesn't mean I can't act like a bratty child on occasion. Which we both know I do."
She laughs softly and kisses his hand, nodding. "Well thank you. That's really sweet. And yes, you do act like a brat, but you're my brat. So I don't mind too much."
Sherlock smirks and they walk through the fair. They stop for multiple treats, including some to save for later, and they go on a few rides.
After a few hours, the sun begins to set, and he pulls her to the line for the London Eye. Molly beams and her eyes sparkle with the reflection of the twinkling carnival lights as she pulls him in for a kiss. Sherlock eagerly returns the kiss and wraps his Belstaff around her smaller body tenderly before they pull away for air.
"Hmm, I thought you hated PDA."
"I do, but it felt right in the moment. Something else you taught me. That living in the moment can be a gift."
Molly stands on her tiptoes and kisses his cheek lovingly. "Well, it was a very nice kiss."
"I agree", he winks cutely as she smiles back at him.
Once they are seated on the Ferris wheel, Sherlock wraps an arm around her, and Molly cuddles close as they enjoy the final moments of the sunset over London. Their mutual favorite view of the city they both adore.
After quite a handful of go-arounds, it stops, with them at the very top. Molly gasps and chuckles. "Thank goodness we aren't one of those people who are terrified of heights."
"Thank goodness", Sherlock mumbles, seemingly distracted.
"Sherlock? What's wrong?"
"Nothing. Nothing is wrong, Molly. In fact, everything is pretty great. You know how I keep saying how you've taught me all these little lessons?"
"Yes...it's very sweet."
"Well, you've taught me one big important one too. You taught me what love could be. How it can be an advantage and not always a disadvantage. You've taught me that love can survive almost everything when it's with the right person. You also taught me that...I don't want to live the way my brother does. I don't want to be him, and I certainly don't want to be my sister. And you ground me. You're the one that keeps me innately human. You make me better than both of them with your love."
Molly tears up and cups his cheek. "Oh, Sherlock..."
"It's true...and um...well, with that being said...", he murmurs deeply, and he retrieves a small blue velvet box from his Belstaff pocket.
Molly gasps as Sherlock opens the box to reveal the most gorgeous diamond ring.
"Molly Hooper, will you marry me?"
With both hands covering her mouth and unable to get the words out through newfound sobs, Molly nods vigorously and hugs him tight, crying.
"Yes...", she chokes out. "Oh God, yes! Yes, Sherlock. Yes, I'll marry you."
Sherlock tears up a bit and kisses her softly, very carefully taking the ring out of the box, and taking her left hand with his, slipping the ring onto her finger. Of course, it's a perfect fit.
Right then the wheel starts up again and they begin their descent back down to the ground, clinging to each other, Sherlock comforting his future bride.
As they walk back towards the parking lot, Molly can't help but stare at her ring which glitter and sparkles with how much brighter the lights are now that it's dark. Sherlock grins genuinely and holds her to his side, walking slowly with her.
Molly stops and looks up at him, love and endearment in her eyes. She pulls him to the side, against a game machine and pulls him down for a passionate kiss. His eyebrows raise in shock and surprise, but Sherlock allows his eyelids to slip close as he kisses her back equally as enthusiastic.
"Mmm...Molly...", he mumbles. "I know I said I didn't mind the PDA but maybe we should take this back to your place for the night", he smirks.
Molly giggles and nods, stroking his lips absently before he straightens up. As they begin to make their way towards the parking lot again, Molly's eye catches something near one of the many games.
"Oh!"
"What? What is it?"
"Sherlockkk", Molly slaps his arm in excitement.
"Whattt, Molly?"
Her eyes tear up softly and she grabs his hand and points a bit. "That...that teddy bear that's on the prize wall over there. It looks almost exactly like the one my dad won me when I was a kid...", she sniffles. "I know you aren't religious and maybe it will sound silly to you, but I don't know, it-it just seems like he's watching over me. Like he's telling us congratulations."
Sherlock lifts his hand to his lips and kisses it, nodding understandingly. "Why don't I just go over there and win it for you then?"
"Really?"
"Yes, really", he smiles. "Come on. It's a simple water gun in the target game. Simple."
Molly follows him and grins as he pays the vendor and grabs one of the lime green water guns.
The vendor takes the money. "You have thirty seconds to keep the water aimed at the target. If the pressure gauge reaches the top line, you win. Ready?"
"Absolutely", he smirks. The game starts and Molly holds back a giggle at how focused and determined Sherlock looks with that big clunky neon water gun. After thirty seconds the lights and bells go off signaling that he won.
Molly squeals happily and hugs him tightly. Sherlock chuckles and holds her close. "Go on, choose your prize, love."
Beaming, Molly picks out the teddy bear, and the vendor hands it to her. She immediately holds it close to her and nuzzles its fur. "Thank you, Sherlock. This means more to me than you could ever know. Thank you."
"It was my pleasure, future Mrs. Holmes."
"Wow, that sounds so...wow."
"Who knows, maybe when the time comes, we could even put the bear in the nursery..."
Molly stops in her tracks and turns to him. "I-I'm sorry what did you just say?"
Sherlock smirks and keeps walking.
"Sherlock! What did you just say!?"
"You heard me, I'm sure."
"Are you serious?"
"Very much so."
Molly gasps and jumps into his arms, wrapping her arms and legs around him. "Oh! Ohh Sherlock...ohh...really?"
"Really. Now come on. We'd better get started if you'd like, as we both know we aren't getting any younger", he winks.
"Yes, yes, I would like", Molly laughs and clings to him closely as they reach her car. "I love you."
"I love you too, Molly."
