Molly rubs her eyes tiredly as she stares into the microscope for what seems to be the millionth time that night. In fact, she had totally lost track of time. Sherlock had come to the lab last night bearing take away from Angelo's and she couldn't resist saying no when he had pleaded with her to help him with some research for a case. She loves the man dearly, but she wasn't particularly in the mood to stay late. It's very hard to say no to someone that good looking though, especially when he's now your boyfriend and you try to put in effort to make him happy as much as he makes you.
Sighing loudly, she steps away and hugs Sherlock from behind. "Sherlock I'm exhausted, I think we have been going at this experiment for hours now. Can we please go home?"
Sherlock grunts in response before sighing as well and putting down the slide. He turns around and wraps his arms around Molly, who is visibly bleary-eyed. "Alright, you're right, it's been a while." Glancing up at the clock, he rolls his eyes and looks back at her. "When are you going to ask Mike to get someone to fix that clock. You can't exactly wear a watch when you're elbows deep in a corpse."
"I'll ask him soon, it didn't use to bother me, but now I find myself looking up at it out of habit and forgetting it died and it throws me off. I have to guess when my shift ends, unless I go into my office and check my phone, which would just be another bad habit."
He nods as he reluctantly pulls away from her and helps her clean up. Once finished, they head into her office to grab their coats. Sherlock slips his Belstaff on as Molly pulls her phone out of her desk, checking it. "Oh my God!"
"What?", Sherlock replies, looking concerned.
"Sherlock, it's half past five in the morning!"
"What? No, that's impossible, is it?"
"Yes!", she exclaims, tossing her coat on and slapping his arm gently. "You made us work /through/ the night!"
"Well...think of it this way, I'll explain to Mike, send him a text so he knows, and you'll get the day off to recover, how's that?"
"Sherlock, that's not the point. It was totally irresponsible."
"Hey, if they had fixed your clock, that wouldn't have happened", he snarked back as he sends the text to her boss. (
)
"No, if you hadn't shown up right before I left and begged me to do some research with you, /then/ this wouldn't have happened."
"Okay, so maybe both contributed. But you get the entire day off now, that can't be too bad. I know you like cuddling up with sweats and an oversized shirt, usually mine, and coffee or tea and a book and such. We can have a relaxing day...since I owe you that now."
Molly rolls her eyes and him and nods. "Okay. Only because I'm way too tired to argue with you right now, and you're a nice snuggle bunny."
"Wh-wh...", he looks shocked. "What did you just call me?"
"My snuggle bunny", she smirks. "Because you are. You take any and all opportunity to snuggle up to me when we are home, and even sometimes when we are in public. I do it too, but not nearly as much."
He gapes. "I-I take offense to that, I am not."
"You are too!", she laughs. "Absolutely you are."
"Okay, okay, maybe. But don't...say /that/ in public", he cringes as they walk out to her car.
"Oh, what? Sherlock is my little snuggle bunny!?", she exclaims as she reaches up and pinches his cheek, smirking playfully.
"Mollyyyy! Stooop."
She giggles and keeps walking. "You're too cute."
"I'm not cute", he mumbles. "I'm intimidating."
"Mhmm, whatever you say", Molly chuckles.
They get in her car and drive back to Molly's house. As they arrive, the sun is making an appearance over the horizon. She gasps and grabs his hand, tugging him inside the house.
"Molly? What?"
"Just follow me", she replies, leading him upstairs to her spare bedroom. She opens the window and climbs through it onto her roof.
"Well, aren't you coming? It's a lovely view of the sunrise!"
"Do you not recall my experience the last time I was on a roof?"
"You're not jumping, we're just sitting. Please? I'll protect you", she grins cutely.
Sherlock groans as he peeks out, then very slowly slips out of the window and onto the roof as well. "This is so unsafe."
"I do it all the time. Sometimes if I'm up early for the sunrise, and sometimes at night when I can see the stars."
Molly sits with her knees drawn to her chest and smiles as he sits next to her, immediately wrapping an arm around her shoulders.
"I told you, you are cute."
"Oh hush, I'm just...being a good boyfriend. Isn't that what you wanted?"
"You are a good boyfriend, regardless."
Sherlock blushes a bit and smiles, kissing her temple before turning his attention to the sunrise. The fading navy of the night is flooded over with oranges, yellows, a bit of pink and a paler blue as the bright orb of light ascends into the sky bit by bit.
"Wow...", he murmurs.
"I told you. It's really beautiful. Something simple that happens every day, that so few people stop to enjoy or are even awake to enjoy. Sometimes it's the little things that count, Sherlock. I think you're slowly learning that."
He nods slowly and pulls her closer into his side, nuzzling her cheek softly. "I think I am too, Molly. By the way, thank you, for last night. You could have said no and made us go home, but you stayed and helped me. It meant a lot."
Molly looks up into his gorgeous eyes, now illuminated by the glow of the sun. "I know it did, and we've been doing a lot of domestic stuff lately. I guess in a way, I knew that it was your turn."
"My turn?"
"Well, yeah. You do domestic stuff with me, I do sciencey stuff with you. It's give and take."
"I didn't say I didn't enjoy the domestic stuff. As long as it's with you, I enjoy it."
"I feel the same way about the science stuff. I think as long as we have a good balance, we can make this relationship work the way it has been for a long time. If-if that's what you want, of course."
"It is what I want. I quickly realized that the moment I told you I loved you. And I do, Molly. I love you more than I ever thought possible."
"I love you too, Sherlock."
With that, they exchange a loving kiss as the sun takes its place high up in the sky for the remainder of the day. Unfortunately, neither of them would be quite conscious enough to revel in it. That was no loss to them, however, as they found other warmth in each other's arms, sleeping peacefully under the blankets for the rest of the morning, and moseying around the house that night.
