"Rosie, be careful!", John shouts softly as the four-year-old runs around the yard of their new house, crunching the leaves and jumping in the larger piles of them that her father had so graciously tried to rake earlier.
Sherlock chuckles and hands him a beer as he glances over at John's new wife, Caroline, and Molly chatting happily amongst themselves.
He and Molly's own daughter, six-year-old Cassie, newly adopted from an international case in Italy, 
is smiling and watching Rosie squeal and jump in the crisp multicolored leaves as she sits at the picnic table with her book, her cozy wool sweater pulled up to her chin. She has a genius mind like her new father and brown hair and eyes like her new mother.
"Who would have known that a year and a half ago, that we would be standing here right now, overlooking this damn good sight?"
John grins and takes the beer, cracking it open and taking a gulp. "Absolutely nobody. It's incredible. Meeting Caroline, making her my wife and Rosie's stepmother. You and Molly getting together, nearly married. Adopting a child! Never ever saw you for the domestic type. But then again, who was it that told me he despised all domesticity?"
Sherlock rolls his eyes and takes a sip of his beer, sighing deeply. "I feel like I'm a different person now. Same but different. I'm still the best at my work, but I have the added bonus of...of…love and family. I see now what the big hype is about it. Having Molly, and now Cas...I never truly knew much, eh..."
"Just like a proper idiot."
They laugh together, reminiscing about their first case together and the flashback those words still bring about.
"So, did you set a date for the wedding yet? Hell, I've gotten married twice in the time it's taken you to fuckin propose to Molly, mate."
Sherlock takes a gulp of his beer and sighs happily. "We're thinking next week."
"Wh-...wait, what?"
Smirking, Sherlock shrugs and smiles. "What? Did you really think as untraditional as both Molly and I are that we would choose to be surrounded with unnecessary frills and people we can barely tolerate that we never speak to?"
"Wow...I guess I never really thought about it."
We are going to get married in church, because that's what Molly wants, and it was her father's parish. But the only people we are inviting are you and Caroline and Rosie, Lestrade, Stamford, my family, because something mirroring hell would rain down upon me if I didn't invite my mother, a few of Molly's friends, and...", he trails off, his eyes drooping with annoyance.
"And...who?"
"Anderson", he bites out.
"Anderson?", John laughs.
"Don't laugh! Considering he was the first person to assume that I loved Molly and the fact that he's still obsessed with my life for some God-forsaken reason, Molly thought it would be kind to invite him and his wife."
"Oi, mate, that's...taking the high ground."
"You're telling me."
"Well let us know, you know we'll be there."
"Thank you, John. Maybe I can use you as a distraction to offset my mother's incessant petting and questions about family."
John chuckles and nods. "Sure, but your Mum isn't too bad. Just remember that some of us don't have mothers anymore, and she's a sweet one despite being involved."
"I know that..."
Molly and Caroline walk over grinning. "How does some champagne and apple crisp sound?", Caroline asks. "I also have apple cider for the girls. I thought we could sit out by the fire pit and enjoy it before it gets too cold to this season"
"Oh that's a wonderful idea!", Molly pipes up enthusiastically, moving onto her tiptoes and kissing Sherlock's cheek.
"Sounds good", John replies and Sherlock nods in the affirmative.
.
.
The smell of warm apple crisp fills the air of John's new home as Caroline takes it out of the oven. Molly assists her in the kitchens, getting places and glasses for the treat and the drinks.
Sherlock goes over to Cassie and sits next to her at the picnic table. "You're engrossed in that book. What are you reading?", he questions, absently stroking her hair.
Cassie looks up at him with her big brown eyes and smiles. "I took this from Mol- I mean Mum's bookshelf at home. It's her old medical journal."
Chuckling he takes a peek. "She's a very smart woman, it must be a good read."
"It's really interesting."
"Well you should put it away, so it doesn't get sticky. They'll be bringing out the apple crisp in a moment."
"Okay, I will", she nods, hugging his side for a moment before making her way back through the sliding doors to put it away as told.
Once everyone is seated and the delicious dessert is gobbled up by all, Cassie resumes reading the journal and Rosie resumes playing on her new outdoor playset. The adults sit around the fire pit, but Sherlock and Caroline have a bit of trouble getting it to light.
That's when John and Molly come outside bearing sparklers. Rosie and Cassie's faces light up in awe as they are lit and Molly waves them around, giggling. They flare beautifully in the dusk and John grins as well, waving his happily.
Going over to Rosie, John helps her to hold one and wave it around as she gasps and giggles with the bright sparks. "It's okay because Daddy is with you, alright? You have to be very careful."
Molly goes over and hands one to Cassie, grinning. "Want to try?"
"Yes! But...is it going to burn me?"
"No, it feels more like little prickles. You won't burn."
Cassie nods and bites her lip, concentrating as she takes it as moves it around in shapes in the air. "It's really pretty."
"Just like you", Molly smiles and kisses her cheek, as she blushes.
Moments later, John and Molly light two more and stick them in the fire pit, successfully getting the wood and dried leaves to ignite, warming up the sitting area.
The two families spend the rest of the night talking, snacking, and cozying up by the fire.
.
.
About a week later, Sherlock and Molly are stood, saying their wedding vows in the presence of their friends and family. It's a small but joyous group of people, and unfortunately for Sherlock, Philip Anderson and his wife /had/ eagerly accepted the invite.
They exchange a quite passionate kiss when prompted, and as the couple heads back down the aisle towards the small limo they had rented to take them back to Molly's (
) home for the reception, Sherlock can't help but feel a bit uneasy with just how giddy Anderson is; he practically can't sit still.
Of course, it only took them a brief moment to realize why. When the newly married couple steps out into the open air, Philip rushes out ahead of everyone else. The moment everyone is out of the church, large bright fireworks begin to explode in the evening sky in perfect view, ending with them spelling out "SHERLOLLY".
Laughs were had and Anderson looks extremely proud of himself. Molly giggles and hugs Sherlock's arm, staring up in awe at their bestowed couple nickname. As much as Sherlock would love to feel annoyed at the moment, he can't bring himself to not be happy about it as he pulls Molly close for another tender kiss, his friends applauding yet again at the start of what would be an incredible future.
