Sherlock was bored. Again. Well, as usual.
He sat in sofa and gazed on white flakes of snow outside the window. Wooden window frame was covered with ice on the other side. The wind seemed being wild – the sound of stormy air was terrifying.
John was sitting near. He watched some medical lectures on his laptop. The author was taking about long rehabilitations after difficult surgery. John didn`t have a lot of interest watching that, though he had already experienced those things in past. The blog`s page was going to gather some dust – Watson haven`t added there anything for couple of months. It seemed all criminals were cared away. Microft called only once. John could even suggest Sherlock misses him. But of course he knew what and who really disturbed his friend. And nothing could draw Sherlock's attention away from one exact person.
"Are you gonna play a violin?" – asked Watson one day. All of them were the same – with white snow carpet among winter fresh air and dead silence in the rooms of 221B.
"Kind of, " that was the answer. Sherlock took the violin case from shelf and put it on sofa. He carefully picked up the instrument. He made light slide movement with fingers along lacquered body of violin. Shining wood kept had no even one sharp on itself. Sherlock was too attentive to this violin.
Detective stood still for few seconds. Than he took an instrument and the bow and went towards the window. He put the violin on black material of jacket and freezed. The hand with bow was risen up in the air.
Snowflakes went down slowly. Making unknown to anybody tricks, they obeyed the wind and let themselves falling lower each moment. Holmes observed them carefully. Watson was watching too.
"Is human's life similar to a snowflake?" - doctor asked himself with silent voice. "We're falling down, being addicted with simple wind blowings. We move freely, in different sides and heights until... Until the snowflakes touch the ground."
Watson took the laptop closer and opened the page of own blog in hurry. The last post was made five months ago. He fished out a phone from his pocket.
Holmes made shorts sounds trying the voice of instrument. Sherlock was standing in front of window and tuning the violin. That view was captured in photo. Watson uploaded it on the laptop quickly. He created a new publication, in which he mentioned:
"
While Watson was doing a publication, Sherlock started playing. He played without notes sheets, recreating Antonio Vivaldi's "Winter" in a perfect way. Each sound was clear, pure and bright. The bow moved quickly and directly. Shadows of strict profile moved sharply and chaotically. It seemed that snowflakes outside got used to the rhythm, connected their falling with strong and down beats. At that moment the world consisted only with three things: sound of a noble violin, cold and nasty weather outside, and of course with Sherlock himself. He played one part after another without noticing time. He also didn't notice (or just made a look) how Ms. Hudson entered the room and put two cups of tea on small table.
Music spread around the room, feeling it with cosines and warmth. Holmes finished playing "Winter" part after long time. Watson was impressed and gently clapped to support a mate. Despite that Sherlock didn't turn around and put violin back to the case. He started playing a melody. A song, after hearing which John freezed.
Sherlock played it three times in total. Each time in different arrangement, but the main motive was easily recognizable. A bittersweet one. A melody of her. The song of Irene Adler. The tune of a despair game, where the only one winner can exist. A theme of tragic honor, a strong connection between so different people.
Sherlock always despised her. He named her "that woman", mentioning once or twice after the "Scandal in Belgravia". Watson had never asked anything about her, he was interested though. All in all, he hasn't noticed any kind of even so weak connection between Sherlock and any other woman after Irene. It was obvious for John that no kind of love could even try to take a place in this partnership – they were too high-minded of themselves. Well, Sherlock even didn't tell he saved her. And that "Happy Birthday" message was the only one miscalculation. Watson wished he could think clear and convince himself he made all this view up by himself. But there was a thing he couldn't justify.
"Have you sent a reply?" – asked John in a low voice. Sherlock stopped playing and turned back. His face was calm, as a stone mask with no emotions.
"What kind of reply?"
"You know what I'm talking about."
The wind was blowing outside, whispering unknown song. The room transformed in a soulless apartment again when Holmes stopped playing.
"I don't-"
"You do."
Sherlock starred at Watson with a surprise. He put the instrument back in a case and came closer. Holmes took a cup of tea, made his back straight and gulped hot beverage.
"Never thought you would become a coward."
"So am I."
Holmes sat down on the sofa. He looked like a child, who accidentally broke a vase and now tries to justify himself.
"She greeted you and you hadn't even say "thank you"?
"She also asked to give her cameraphone back"
"Oh, really? You've been chating, haven't you?"
"So? Any problems with that?"
"Oh wait, let me have a guess. You're not trying to get in touch with her"
"It's not necessary. All in all, why does she need that? All information was deleted from phone after five months. Perhaps she put some kind of safety algorithm, that's why it happened. Why does she need it back?"
Sherlock talked to himself, without noticing Watson's interest. Holmes discoursed own words with usual sharpness and confidence, like he did in all crime occasions.
"Maybe she wants to meet you? Haven't you thought about that?"
Holmes sipped the tea, louder than he ever did.
"Why?"
That question was hilarious for John. He tried not to laugh, that's why Holmes glared at him with total misunderstanding.
"Cause you're both too much in love with yourselves. And it's time to be in love with each other."
Sherlock cleaned his throat and put the cup on a table. He moved his palms closer and matched fingers together. He could have spent hours in that pose, but the most shaming thing in the world happened after few moment. A sound of notification was heard in the room. Watson freezed for a second, replying a sound of woman's moan in own head. He slowly turned to Sherlock, expressing silent sentence "I've told you everything before it happened".
Sherlock took the phone, which was peacefully lying on the table with no hurry. He switched on the screen and glared there for some time. He made couple movements with fingers and brought his eyebrows together. Lips curved in a strange smile, than he stretched the phone towards John. There were messages
"
The pinned file contained some notes sheets. And the link followed to the recent post on blog, with Holmes photo in publication. John said nothing. He put the phone back on table and took morning newspaper, which he hadn't opened yet.
Holmes didn't move for long 15 minutes, starring at the phone screen. But after all hesitations, he put a case with violin away and grabbed a coat with scarf. He put them on in hurry and left the room.
