"You wait here, my dear. He should return soon."
Molly nodded, silently. Her hand delicately rested on her stomach. Questions plagued her as she settled on the sofa with the help of Mrs. Hudson, who seemed to remember her. Would he understand? Would he turn her away? The moment she discovered her condition, she wanted so much to run to him, to tell him what their love produced. To share the joy that she felt knowing that it was his child, and knowing he would share in the joy.
Unfortunately, it wasn't to be.
Someone dark discovered her secret before she had the chance to tell him, and for months, she was a prisoner. To the world, she was content and moderately happy, or should she say to his realm of compatriots and allies. To her closest friends, she was miserable. Her supposed fiancé was cruel, controlling, and murderous. For the first few months, she tried to run, to escape his clutches. She even tried to send a message to her love, but every line was watched. Every attempt was destroyed.
Until now.
It took weeks of secret planning. Her closest friends had risked everything to ensure her safety. The servants, those who loved her, ensured her secret escape. It was dangerous, but with only a month left until her child was born, she had no choice. She refused to allow that man to take her child away, claiming it was his, taking the last foothold against Sherlock Holmes. She refused to allow the product of hers and Sherlock's love to be tainted by hatred. So, now she was here. She just wasn't sure how long before he found her.
She only hoped Sherlock would not turn her away. Even though he loved her before, who was to say he still did after she was gone for nearly eight months. Out of reach from his network and friends. Out of reach from him. It was no wonder her friends believed she was dying. She was without love, except for the child within. It was the promise of seeing him again that kept her going. The promise that he would find her or she would find a way back to him.
She felt him before she heard him. The door to his flat opened after hurried footsteps outside climbed the stairs. Mrs. Hudson probably contacted him. Maybe Mrs. Hudson's phone wasn't tapped, but now, it didn't matter. Molly knew Sherlock would try to protect her, even if he hated her for leaving. She held her breath, refusing to turn around. It was now or never.
He stood in the doorway, gripping the handle until his knuckles ached from the strain. She was here. He couldn't believe it. He blinked a few times in order to ensure that he wasn't dreaming, and relief overwhelmed him when she continued in his sight. All those months spent searching, hoping, and now, here she was. The woman who haunted his dreams. The woman he loved more than anything. Molly Hooper.
His feet dragged, propelling him to ensure that he wasn't dreaming, as he slid off the Belstaff and scarf, dropping them on the floor. He had to physically touch her, not just blink, and see if she remained in his vision. He had to hold her, kiss her, touch her. He had to know she was there. He stopped in front of her, watching her with her eyes closed. Her long hair was as he remembered, falling delicately down to her waist. The baggy clothes did nothing for her. Even sitting, he could tell they just fell on her, not accentuating the curves he remembered so well and dreamed of for months.
Her eyes fluttered and time seemed to stand still as he stared into her brown orbs. She breathed his name and his heart nearly made him fall on his knees, giving thanks that she was here.
Molly was feeling the same as she held his gaze. He was just as she remembered. His curly hair was still straggly but still cut to perfection. His body was lean and the shirt he wore pulled in all the right places, like the purple shirt she loved so well. His face was smooth and his eyes. Oh, his eyes were the same heterochromatic color as she dreamed. He was still so handsome, and her heart tightened. Her hands twitched in her lap, aching to touch his face and hair.
"I searched for you."
Four words that held the world. She tried to smile but failed. "I tried to get word to you," she returned. "Michael found out."
His jaw clenched. So, it was true. His adversary had discovered Molly. "He had you."
She nodded. "I tried to fight him, but he knew what to say to keep me." She inhaled deeply, squaring her shoulders. "But thankfully, I made a few friends. They helped me escape, and find my way back to you."
His arms jerked, wanting to hold her, but something held him back. There was something she wasn't saying. Something he needed to know. "Why are you here?"
Molly's eyes closed, briefly praying that he would understand when she revealed everything. "Because I need you, Sherlock." She inhaled, rising to her feet, with a mild struggle. She straightened watching his expression change to disbelief. "I need your help for our child's sake."
His eyes widened. That was the reason behind the baggy clothes. It had been eight long months since he last saw her, but she appeared to be a little farther along than eight months. Could it be? Could she really be carrying his child?
"Yes, he's yours. There have been no others," she confessed, gently. "There couldn't be."
He should have known. Molly was faithful to the core. Their love for each other was strong, stronger than what he ever thought, and the proof of it was growing inside her. "Molly," he breathed.
Not wasting another moment, he jerked her into his arms. They shivered at the contact. It was like coming home. Two people separated by opposing forces, fighting to reunite, and finally accomplishing it after months of loneliness.
Molly's head nestled against his chest, content for the first time in months. "I love you, Sherlock. I never stopped. It was the only thing that kept me going."
He sighed, tightening his hold. "I love you," he whispered.
"That gave me hope."
He placed his hands on her shoulders and searched her eyes. Within her brown depths, he saw it. The hope she desperately clung to. Lowering his eyes, he studied her growing stomach with awe. His child was there, just beneath her heart. She was carrying his child.
She watched his expression shift to amazement and wonder, and she smiled. Yes, he knew. He believed her. "I wanted to tell you, but he threatened your life if I said anything," she confessed.
"You were protecting me."
She nodded when his head lifted to study her face. "You have every right to be angry with me."
He smiled, sadly, touching her face with reverence. "I'm not angry, Molly."
"You should be, Sherlock," she responded, leaning into his touch.
"Why? Because you were protecting me and our child?" He stroked her cheek with the back of his fingers. "If I'm angry at anyone, it would be Michael for taking you both away from me."
"He didn't succeed. Not completely, because I'm here, and I'm never leaving you again."
"Good, because I won't let you leave."
Tears burned her eyes. The conviction in his statement warmed her heart. This was the Sherlock who won her heart. The one many never saw. The man beneath the detective's mask was the man who owned her heart and soul, and the father of her child, the man she loved.
"What do you want to do?"
He smiled, sadly, cupping her face, lightly stroking her cheek with the pad of his thumb. "First, I'm going to hold the woman I love in my arms, and kiss her until we lose air, and then," he trailed off, searching her eyes.
"And then?" she asked, breathlessly.
He smiled, the suggestion in his eyes. She blushed, but the joy shone in her eyes.
"In the morning, I'll find a safe location for us and the war begins."
Hours later, she snuggled in his arms, content for the first time in months. Their reunion was better than she ever dreamed with Sherlock being patient and loving. His urgency only broke through at the end when they both could no longer contain their feelings and desire.
Her hand rested on his bare chest, drawing circles over his heart. He always amazed her at how physique he was when he wasn't the athletic kind. There was no flab, no skinniness, only muscles, and perfectly shaped abs and arms. He was Adonis in her arms.
His right hand rested on her stomach, and gently caressed it. His vision blurred as he stroked her womb. He still couldn't believe it. He was going to be a father. This was something he never imagined would happen to him. Of course, he never imagined being in love either. Then the near loss of Molly by his sister Eurus, had him rethinking his emotions. They weren't complicated. They were simple. He loved Molly with his life, his soul, and his heart. He loved her more than anything, and she loved him with just the same amount of emotion. Together, they created this bundle of joy resting inside her.
It had been months after Sherrinford when Sherlock built up the nerve to ask Molly out on a date. John had been thrilled and tried to coach him on the basics of a date. Sherlock only rolled his eyes, inwardly, and accepted the tutelage with ease. Not that he paid any attention. That night, was the most romantic Sherlock ever had been. It began nearly a year of courtship before they finally could no longer control their desire. Molly was hesitant at first because she had decided that Sherlock was going to be her last, and that night began a passionate interlude.
It had been just as it was a few hours ago, but less vigorous, in a way. They had fallen into bed, slowly stripping until there was nothing between them except love. Their joining was explosive. Sherlock still shivered as he thought about that night. The way Molly clawed his back and hips, trying to pull him closer to her. The way his own hands bruised her hips, before grasping her wrists and hands as he tried to reach oblivion. The rest of the night was spent locked together, neither wanting to move or separate from the other and when morning came, they began the dance anew.
After the final climax, Sherlock asked her to marry him.
Her response had him nearly in tears as she wept and clung to him, barely believing it. At first, she was unsure if he meant it, but he surprised her minutes later with an engagement ring.
Then, weeks later, she disappeared.
"It nearly killed me when you disappeared," he whispered, hoarsely. "I thought at first, you had changed your mind about me, about us."
Molly caressed his cheek and shook her head against his shoulder. "No, I would never." She licked her lips. "I found out about our child that morning, and I was on my way to tell you, but somehow, Michael found out."
He tightened his grip on her upper arm, remembering the pain. He had been so careful. So careful, to keep his relationship with her a secret as the threat of Michael became closer. Yet, he discovered it.
"How could he?"
Molly sighed; her hand flattened on his chest. "He said he knew from Moriarty that I helped you or knew you. Somehow, he pieced it together."
"Damn it," he uttered, closing his eyes in anger. "I should have known."
"You couldn't have," she whispered, soothingly.
"Molly, I should have. I should have protected you."
"Sherlock," she began, but he rolled over, searching her eyes with torment shining in his.
"I should have known that he would find out about us. I should have done a better job at protecting you."
"I'm not blaming you," Molly stated, reassuringly. "I would never. Besides, I hoped that you knew how much I wanted to marry you."
"Do you still?"
She smiled, caressing his face, lifting her bare leg to brush against his. "Definitely, if you'll have a blimp for a wife."
He chuckled, touching her face with a gentle stroke. "I'll have you any way you are. You are my life, Molly Hooper."
Tears filled her eyes at the touching statement. She had hoped he would still want her, but part of her, a very small part, believed he might not after being taken by his enemy. "Am I really?" she asked, emotionally.
"Why do you doubt?"
She shrugged with a gentle expression on her face. "I don't, not really, but," she hesitated, lowering her eyes. Sherlock touched her chin and raised her eyes to his face. She bit her lip, but his thumb gently pulled it out. "I wasn't sure if you would think I was tainted."
He smirked, rubbing his fingers over her chin. "Answer me this," he began, searching her face, stroking her side with trembling hands. "Would you have succumbed to his charms if he asked?"
She scoffed. "Of course not."
He nodded. "You see."
She smiled, feeling his fingers brushing her body in a delicious way. It was at that moment, the baby moved. Sherlock stilled, feeling the kick, and stared with fascination. "He's been moving a bit more since I've planning to come to you," Molly explained with a smile. "I think he knows his father."
Sherlock felt the burn of tears and closed his eyes as his hand covered their child nestled in his mother's womb. "I never thought of being a father."
Molly stroked his face. "I know."
His eyes opened and he stared into hers. "Will I be a good one?"
She nodded, smiling, softly. She understood his fears for she had the same. "I think you'll be terrific."
The emotion in his eyes moved her. Pulling his head down to capture his lips, she breathed in. In that single moment, they were together, at peace, no adversary lurking in the darkness. No worries for the moment of their happiness being snatched away. They were in love, happy, and together. For the time being, it was enough.
"How dare you allow her to escape!"
The gathering of servants and guards winced and shuddered at the booming voice. Their eyes remained downcast, fear keeping them from gazing upon the man who now threatened their very lives.
He stood nearly six feet tall with straight black hair, combed to perfection. His green eyes sparkled with uncontrolled rage and his oval face tightened. His voice graveled and nearly whispered in the darkness. When he stepped further into the light, they shrank in the line they had formed.
"How could an eight-month pregnant woman find her way out and no one sees anything?" he asked, his voice growing darker than ever.
They kept their eyes focused on the ground until the sound of the hammer on a gun sharpened their attention. A crack in the room, followed by a loud boom made them jump and the women clutched their chests. A thump drew their attention to the middle of the line where one of the maids had fallen. Several covered their mouths, tears burning and sobs choking in their throats.
"I will say this only once, and for every second you do not tell me, I will pull the trigger and kill someone else," he threatened. "Where is she?"
They remained silent as he pulled the trigger and another servant hit the ground. Before he pulled the trigger a third time, one of the servants stepped forward. He paused; his green glittering in the light.
She swallowed nervously, her hands fidgeting in front of her. "She's gone to him."
Michael stepped forward, his eyes narrowing with anger. "Him?" He glanced at the others, and his hand tightened on the gun. "Sherlock?" The silence told him everything. "How?"
She raised her head higher, her bravery coming from the knowledge she had done the right thing. "I helped her."
His head dipped forward. "You helped her." He focused his gaze on her, and in his peripheral vision, witnessed several others, including some guards clench their eyes shut. "Well, know this, I will find her and when I do, I will ensure she knows your death is on her hands."
"She won't believe you, sir," the maid confessed. "And no matter what you do, Sherlock will win."
He growled, jerking the gun up to her head. In a split second, blood exited the back of her head along with grey matter and she collapsed on the floor. He whirled and scoffed at the others, who were trying to wipe the splatter off their faces and clothes.
"He won't win," he stated, glaring at them all. "If any of you helped her escape, know this, you didn't save her. You only prolonged her death." He turned his attention to the head security guard and shoved the gun in his hands. "Clean this mess up, and send out the word. I want Molly Hooper found," he growled, stomping out of the room.
As a few of the servants and the guards exited the room, three stayed behind, each one shedding a tear for the brave soul who spoke up.
"Why did she tell him?"
"She saved us all, Lizbeth."
Lizbeth, a younger woman about twenty, glanced at the older gentleman. "We need to tell Molly."
"Molly is safe for the moment. Telling her of this would only risk her life sooner," Jess, another older woman spoke. "Besides, there is nothing she can do."
"If he finds her," Lizbeth started, shaking.
"He won't, not if we send a message through the channels to Sherlock," Martin remarked, softly.
"Will he be able to protect her and their child?" Lizbeth asked, worriedly.
"He will, with help," Martin answered, nodding to the women. "I'll send word tonight."
"If Michael finds her," Lizbeth began but silenced when Jess wrapped her arms around her.
"Sherlock will protect her. We must believe that. That's why we risked it all, love. That child must be born away from Michael, remember it's not really Molly he wants, but the child."
Lizbeth nodded, shuddering as she gazed at the body on the floor. Later that night, she would weep for the woman who gave her life so the others would live. Her death hit her harder than the other two because the woman who saved them was her sister.
Sherlock stared out the window into the streets and his eyes narrowed. Molly was resting, sleeping contently in their bed, and he knew she needed it more than anything. Having her back and in his arms was more than he could ever wish for, but still, he worried about Michael's reach. The knowledge of the child within Molly was glad tidings, but also ominous. It was the child Michael wanted, of that Sherlock was certain. With the child under his control, it would be the perfect weapon against Sherlock.
His hand cupped under his chin and inhaled deeply. Molly was safe for the moment, but Baker Street was not safe forever. He had to get her out and soon. There was only one place she could go that Michael would never suspect. It was unthinkable, but it was only logical.
When she awakened, he would ask before it was executed, but he had to place the call first. He just hoped she would agree.
For it was an emotional place for both of them: Sherrinford.
