Molly rolls over with a soft groan, a smile immediately coming to her face to see the calm, serene face of her husband. She moves closer to him, pressing her bare chest against his back as she becomes the big spoon, unable to help herself from running her fingers through his curls. Sherlock hums pleasurably and his eyes flutter.
"Mmm...good morning darling", he mumbles, his voice deeper than usual with sleepiness.
"Good morning, my love", Molly replies, pulling the sheets up to her shoulders, just in case one of the girls were to barge into their room, as they are still apt to do in their early age. She traces her fingers down his shoulder and arm, relishing in the feel of his soft skin under her touch.
Sherlock smiles to himself and leans back into her hold gently. "I do love it when you choose to be the big spoon. It's very cozy, Moll."
"I know you do; I should do it more often. Though I adore being in your arms just as much, if not more", she giggles softly, brushing her lips against this ear, and eliciting a small moan from his lips. "Oooh, you'd better be careful mister, wouldn't want to wake up those little girls in the next room."
"You are such a tease, Mrs. Holmes. Sometimes I just wonder if you're getting back at me for all those years."
"I guess you'll never know, now, will you?", she smirks playfully, peeking at him over his shoulder as she rests her chin on it.
He chuckles and rolls his eyes, turning just enough to press his lips against hers, their kiss quickly becoming something more passionate and heated than soft and tender.
Molly moans softly into his mouth as their tongues battle for dominance. Sherlock holds her hips and draws her closer to him, moving for air to instead place hungry kisses down her neck.
"Sherlock", she mewls breathlessly. "Sherlock, love, the girls will be up very soon...", she pants.
He chuckles and pants as well, nodding in defeat. "I know, I know. Last night was mind-blowing. Well, you always are, but you understand."
"Mhmmm, I do, and it was. But right now we should get up and start breakfast. We have three smaller mouths to feed. And you know once Maddy wakes up, the other two will be awoken too."
"Yeah...she's got a pretty set of lungs on her, eh? Can we at least take a quick shower together?", he winks.
"I suppose we could do that", she says in a sultry, teasing tone as she gets out of bed, completely naked.
Sherlock smirks and licks his lips, ditching the warmth of their bed to follow after her into their bathroom, and turning the water on. As it regulates, he hugs Molly from behind, placing lazy kisses onto her shoulder.
Molly smiles and looks back at him, leaning into his strong arms and torso. "I love you."
"I love you too. Always."
"Always", she repeats, grinning cutely.
Stepping under the steamy water, Sherlock reaches a hand out to her and pulls her close when she takes it, both of them being bathed in the heat of the stream. Molly relaxes, placing her cheek against Sherlock's chest as he lathers his hands in soap and gently strokes over her back, bum, and curves.
Soft, breathy sighs of content are heard from his wife as he continues to spoil her, working his way to washing her hair, his long fingers massaging her scalp as the shampoo lathers and intertwines with her brunette locks.
Returning the favor, Molly washes Sherlock's curls tenderly once her hair is all rinsed, grinning at him as he makes content purring noises, reminding her a bit of Toby when she pets him in his favorite spot.
Once they are all fresh and smelling nice, they reluctantly step out of the shower and dress in comfortable sweats and t-shirts. Molly stands next to Sherlock in her sweatpants and bra, grinning up at him quietly. He groans and chuckles, rolling his eyes as he passes over one of his own t-shirts to her.
"Yayyy. They just smell like you and it's a really nice smell and it's nice and cozy", she giggles as she slips it on. Her smaller form nearly swims in it, but she is abundantly happy with that.
"I know", he smirks and presses a kiss to her cheek. "I can't exactly say I don't enjoy it when you wear them anyway because I do. You look absolutely adorable, but like...sexy at the same time. It's weird."
Molly laughs and nudges him in the ribs. "Well good. After all, you looking the way you do every day is basically a huge tease, so I get lazy days to do the same to you!"
Sherlock laughs and cuddles her close, nuzzling her neck. "Thank you, that's a nice compliment. I suppose I knew that from that hungry look you get in your eyes when I walk into a room", he says teasingly.
"Hey!", she snorts, and slaps his chest playfully. "Some days, I can't help it, you just look soooo sexy."
He bites his lip and kisses her. "Mm, thank you, love."
"Always, Sherlock."
Just then, a high-pitched squeal comes from the other room. "Maaaamaaa! I 'wakeeee!"
Sherlock laughs softly and Molly smiles. "Told you it was a matter of time."
The pair both walk into their youngest two daughters' room and beam and the toothy grinned, wild curly-haired toddler, jumping up and down in her crib. She looks exactly like her father, bright blue eyes, the curls, even his cupid bow lips.
"Maddy-girl! How is my littlest Holmes this morning!?", Sherlock coos happily as he lifts her from her crib and into his arms.
"Hun-dee!", Maddison squeals, placing her chubby hands on either of her Daddy's cheeks lovingly as she beams happily, putting her nose against his.
"Hungry? Ohh well, Mummy and I should make some breakfast for you and your sisters, huh?"
Molly giggles and kisses Maddy's cheek. "Good morning, baby girl."
"Mo'nin Mama!"
Smiling, Molly walks over to the opposite wall, leaning down to the level of the toddler bed that is there and stroking her other little girl's hair out of her face. Just like her sister, Abigail looks like Sherlock; though her hair is dark like his, it is as straight and silky as Molly's and she even has her little buttoned, upturned nose.
The three-year-old shifts and yawns, rubbing her eyes slowly before looking up at Molly and smiling sleepily.
"Good morning, sweetheart."
"Morning, Mama", she mumbles tiredly and crawls into Molly's arms, lying her head on her shoulder cutely. "Wuv you."
"Ohh, I love you too Abby. How about we go and wake up Cas, and then we can have some brekkie? How Does that sound?"
Abby nods and cuddles her. Sherlock tells Molly that he will go downstairs with Maddy and start some eggs.
Molly carries Abby into Cassidy's room and smiles happily, setting her down on her bed. Abby cuddles up to Cassie and pokes her nose, giggling cutely. "Wake up, Cas!"
Cassie groans and cuddles her little sister for a moment, opening one eye to peek at them. Molly smiles and kisses her forehead. "Good morning, lovey."
"Mhh...morning Mum, morning Abby", the eight-year-old mumbles tiredly.
"Dad's making some scrambled eggs, and I was thinking we could all make some waffles together. Maybe some strawberries with whipped cream as a treat too?"
"Ooh, yeah!", she smiles, sitting up slowly as Abby plays with a couple of Cassie's stuffed animals on the bed.
"C'mon Abby, do you want to help me and Cas make some waffles!? There's strawberries too!"
"Yeah! Staw-berries!", she exclaims excitedly.
Grinning, Molly takes Abby's little hand and hugs Cassie's side. "Let's go make a really yummy breakfast. I can already smell the eggs Daddy's making too. Then we will have a nice lazy Sunday, how does that sound?"
"Good!", they reply in unison.
They all meet in the kitchen and begin preparing a delicious breakfast together that consists of scrambled eggs, waffles, and many strawberries (Molly and the girls' favorite fruit). Sherlock smiles brightly at his family between much-needed sips of coffee.
The rest of the day is spent playing multiple games, watching family movies, and doing what Abby calls "crafts" at her little drawing table.
This life he has settled into may be hectic, crazy, and too fast-paced with hardly any breathing room for either himself or Molly, but there is nowhere he would rather be, and nothing he would rather be than Molly's husband, and a girl dad (
).
