 Surprise! I've decided to begin publishing this story earlier than planned. If I waited until I finished the 
 story, I'd be waiting more weeks, and I really want to get this story published so that the other real-time stories don't lag too far behind their own real-time dates. I don't really want to write a Christmas story that I only start publishing in February. So I'm going to try a twice-a-week publishing schedule for now. We'll see how it goes.
I recommend you read 
 before this one if you have not already done so. There are references to their honeymoon in this chapter.
I hope you will enjoy the continuing story here for my Journey characters.
It was after the announcement on the 14th of June that the easing of restrictions was being pushed back until the 19th of July due to the Delta variant concerns, that Molly noticed a change in Sherlock.
He was showing signs of depression that she hadn't seen before in him. Yes, he'd grumbled about the prolonged inactivity and inability to properly go out and about as a detective, and he had been looking forward to being consulted once again by Greg Lestrade on cases, but the latest news seemed to have affected him more than before.
And that was only the beginning of a series of disappointments.
Mycroft's long delayed (by over a year) 50th birthday party, was cancelled again due to the extension of restrictions, and Elizabeth had finally given up on the idea of celebrating her husband's birthday with family. Sherlock had been ready to throw a few friendly "over the hill" jokes his brother's way, and Molly knew, even if he didn't say so, that he missed his brother. Even the promised visit for a couple days by Sherlock's parents didn't come off, because Sherlock's dad had been under the weather and his doctor had advised against a trip to London.
And then Sherlock, who had obviously been keeping a mental catalogue of Molly's cycle, had suggested she take a pregnancy test when her period didn't arrive on schedule and was almost two weeks beyond when he had calculated her period should occur. Molly had felt none of her previous pregnancy symptoms, and she had expected her period was just being irregular due to the miscarriage, but she acceded to his wishes and took a pregnancy test. The negative test result, although not surprising to Molly, had seemed to drive Sherlock into a downward spiral, further exacerbated when Molly's period arrived two days later, putting paid to any notion of a false negative.
And the worst blow of all came three days later, when Sherlock received a call just as they were sitting down to eat dinner.
Sherlock withdrew his phone from his pocket and answered. "Hello John, I'm just about to eat dinner. What's up?"
Molly watched as Sherlock listened to his friend. She heard the false note of enthusiasm in Sherlock's voice as he responded and immediately knew what was going on. "That is excellent news, John. Congratulations to both of you. I'll let Molly know. She will be delighted for you as well."
Sherlock disconnected the call and looked over at Molly, whereupon he confirmed her suspicions. "John and Kayla are expecting another baby. She just did a positive pregnancy test, and John couldn't keep the news to himself. Isn't that wonderful?" He picked up his fork and took a mouthful of his dinner.
Despite the positive words, Molly could see the hurt in Sherlock's eyes and knew he was thinking about her own negative pregnancy test only days earlier. "That is good news," she agreed," then added, "I know this is hard for you, honey."
Sherlock set down his fork and thrust his hand through his hair. "I feel terrible, Molly. I should be happy for our friends, but I have to confess I'm bloody jealous. I wanted your pregnancy test to be positive."
Molly glanced at Victoria and Christina, who were fortunately busy eating their food and not paying attention. She set down her own fork and walked around to stand beside him at the table. She bent down and kissed his temple. "I understand, sweetheart. Just trust in God. We have to trust in His plans for us, and they are good ones."
"I know what you're saying, Molly, but I feel as if there's a weight pressing down on me. I feel like the world is moving and I'm standing still."
She took his hand where it rested on the table and lifted it to her lips. "Remember what you said just over a month ago, that April showers bring May flowers? Things will improve. They always do. We just need to believe it."
His fingers curled into hers. "I'll try Molly. I'm worried that this depression is going to lead to me wanting to use again."
Molly was a little shocked by his words, but she was glad he was being honest with his anxiety. "Then make sure you go to your NA meeting on Saturday morning and share how you feel. You've been strong for others, so let others encourage you when you're having a rough time."
He looked at her with a half smile. "I'll do that, Molly. Thanks for reminding me. Have I told you lately that you are the best wife a man could ask for?"
She dimpled at him and bent to place a quick kiss to his lips. "Not lately, but it's okay, and you're the best husband too."
Unexpectedly, Victoria piped up with, "I love you, Daddy," and Molly saw the first genuine smile she'd seen from Sherlock in days.
"Love you too, princess."
That night, though, Molly decided it was time to take action. She needed to find a way to get Sherlock out of his slump.
A few days later, on Saturday, on the 26th of June, Sherlock went up to his office to use his laptop to attend his Zoom NA meeting. With Victoria happily watching 
 and Christina in the playpen, Molly made a phone call.
"Hello, Molly, dear. Is everything okay?" came her mother-in-law's voice, sounding surprised and concerned at the same time. Molly knew this was because it was usually Sherlock who used his phone to call his parents, or alternatively they would FaceTime his parents so they could see their granddaughters.
Molly bit her lip. She had a huge favour to ask, and she hoped her in-laws would be amenable to her request. "Well, not exactly. I suppose you've noticed when we've been on FaceTime lately that Sherlock has been a little depressed?"
Molly's mother-in-law sighed. "Yes, I noticed it when he mentioned how frustrating it was that the restrictions were extended again until the middle of next month. I think this past year has been difficult for him."
"I'm worried about him," confided Molly. "I've never seen him so down, and I had an idea that might work, but I'd need your help to make it happen."
"You know Sherlock's father and I would do anything we can to see that our son is happy."
"Would that include coming here to look after the girls for a week so Sherlock and I can go away for our wedding anniversary?"
Relief washed over Molly at her mother-in-law's immediate response. "Of course it would! William was so disappointed we had to cancel our plans to visit. Thankfully, he is feeling much better this week. Have you already made plans? Just give me the dates and I will tell Mycroft to send a car for us."
Molly had already consulted her calendar, although she hadn't yet made any firm plans. "Well, it would be the first week of August, probably starting on Saturday, to include our wedding anniversary. I haven't called yet, but I was thinking maybe we could drive up to the bed and breakfast where we spent our honeymoon if they are open."
"That sounds like a wonderful idea, Molly. I'm sure it would be good for Sherlock to have some time away from London. You make your arrangements and let us know."
Molly heaved a sigh of relief. "Thank you so much. If everything works out, I thought perhaps you can come the night before we leave. I plan to let Sherlock know we are going away, to give him something to look forward to, but I won't tell him where."
"That sounds like a good plan." Molly heard the approval in her mother-in-law's voice. "I hope you will be able to book the same place."
"If not, I'll see if there is another place in the area," said Molly.
She and her mother-in-law spoke for another few minutes about Victoria and Christina, and Molly disconnected the call.
She had work to do.
With Sherlock still upstairs, Molly immediately looked up the address of the B&B to call them.
She was pleased to discover the B&B was still operating. In fact, Kara, the proprietor, said they had not been back in business for very long and so far, there was only one couple booked to stay there for two days for the weekend that began on the 31st of July. For Sherlock and Molly's honeymoon, Molly remembered that Mycroft had paid for them to have the B&B to themselves, but Molly wasn't worried if there were other people around. She was sure she and Sherlock could find their own places to be alone. Perhaps they could picnic in the nearby woods again. They had had a couple unforgettable picnics there on their honeymoon, and Molly had the feeling Sherlock would enjoy recreating their intimacy in the outdoors again. She booked a week at the B&B, beginning on the Saturday.
There was a smile on Molly's lips as she disconnected the call.
Once again, she called her mother-in-law to confirm the arrangements, and by the time Sherlock returned downstairs, Molly was sitting on the sofa, watching the film with part of her attention, even as she anticipated his return.
He took a seat beside her on the sofa. "Ah, the dragon film again. Our daughter certainly likes that Susu dragon."
Victoria turned her head around. "It's Sisu," she corrected him with a giggle. "Silly Daddy."
She turned her attention back to the screen as Sherlock murmured in Molly's ear. "Have you noticed our daughter is always saying I'm silly lately?"
Molly grinned and patted his hand. "I have noticed it. Were you the same in showing your intellectual superiority when you were a child?"
He shrugged. "Probably."
"How was your meeting?"
"It was good. You were right. I really needed to have the opportunity to talk about how I'm feeling. Even though I haven't been tempted to use, it's the idea of fearing it 
 happen if I continue to feel down this way. To know others have struggled and overcome feelings of depression at times actually makes me feel better."
"I'm glad, honey." Molly leaned her cheek against his shoulder and then looked at the film for a few moments before Molly spoke again. "In light of how you've been feeling, I thought it might be nice for us to go away somewhere for our wedding anniversary, just the two of us with no distractions."
His head turned back towards her and she saw a spark of interest in his eyes. "As in no children?"
Her lips quirked. "I would think using the words 'just the two of us' is pretty clear."
"What did you have in mind?"
She slipped her hand into his. "It's already all arranged. Your parents are going to come here and spend a week with the girls, and we are going to go away for a week on the Saturday before our anniversary."
A smile tugged at the corners of his mouth. "And where will we be heading?"
"You'll find out when we drive there." She gave him a stern look. "And don't you dare spend the next five weeks making deductions about it and trying to get any information out of me. I know what you're like."
He gave her a sheepish smile. "It is in my nature to do that. It is not something I actively pursue. Perhaps you should have waited until the day before to tell me."
Molly pursed her lips. "I wanted to give you something to look forward to. Besides, you will need to make sure you are not in the middle of an investigation when it is time to leave."
His expression sobered. "At this rate, I'll never be actively working a case again. What if the government continues the restrictions yet again due to another variant of this cursed virus?"
Molly squeezed his hand. "Even if that happens, I;m determined it won't affect our plans."
"Remind me what I did to deserve you, my love," he said, moving in to brush a tender kiss to her lips.
She pulled back and pretended to seriously consider the question for a few moments. "Well, I suppose it might be because you happen to love me as I love you. You are a wonderful husband and father. You love God as I do." Then she winked. "And you have finally learned how to change the toilet roll instead of leaving the empty one in the holder for me to discover when I have to use the loo."
He chuckled. "Aren't you forgetting that I always put the toilet seat down now?"
Molly grinned. "That too." She tweaked one of his curls. "Of course it doesn't hurt that you're devastatingly attractive."
He gave her a small grin. "If our daughters were not here, I would take you upstairs right now and show you how much I love you."
She grinned. "Well, you'll have plenty of opportunity while we are away by ourselves for that week."
"I'm already looking forward to it," he said softly before they turned their attention back to the television.
Sherlock's mood was better after that, until after he received his second Covid jab the following Tuesday. Oh, he was fine on Tuesday, but Wednesday was not a good day. Molly had never witnessed Sherlock so sick since he'd been suffering withdrawal years earlier which caused occasional bouts of nausea and trips to the bathroom to be sick. This was worse. For a solid six hours, he suffered sickness that seemed very much like Molly's morning sickness with their daughters - the spontaneous urge to be sick every twenty minutes or so which required a dash to the loo.
Molly ended up handing him a plastic bowl to use, the contents of which she emptied into the toilet after he was sick. She also kept him supplied with water and Ritz crackers they always had on hand, so he could keep something in his stomach to expel.
After one of these bouts, Victoria, who had witnessed her father's condition said, patting his leg sympathetically, "Daddy sick. Poor Daddy."
He ruffled her hair while Molly took the sick bowl from him. "Yes, Daddy's sick today. But it's okay, you go back to helping your sister build that tower."
He looked at Molly wearily when she returned from emptying the bowl. "Thanks for doing that for me. My God, Molly. Now I know what you had to put up with when you had morning sickness. I don't think I've ever been so sick in my life. I think I'd rather have Covid."
"Don't say that Sherlock. I know several people from work who've had it, and they say the fatigue from it can last for months after the virus is out of their system, not to mention weight loss because they lose their sense of smell and taste so they don't care to eat. Can you imagine how it would be if you felt so tired when trying to work on cases? Hopefully, you'll be better soon."
And he was. A few hours later, his stomach settled, although he declared he still felt a little nauseous and only ate buttered toast for dinner.
Fortunately, the following day, Sherlock was back to normal, as Molly had hoped he would be, with no more side effects from the vaccine.
For the next couple of weeks, Molly could tell Sherlock was still tense about whether the country would truly open back up on the 19th. He continued to do a few Zoom consultations and even scheduled some in-person consultations at Baker Street. But she could tell he was on edge, waiting to see if he could finally get back to being a detective properly, as he had been unable to do now for well over a year.
It was therefore a relief when, despite cases rising again due to the Delta variant, restrictions were finally lifted on the 19th of July as planned. Sherlock was jubilant when Greg immediately called upon him to investigate a crime scene, and he was successfully able to find clues that led to the culprit. It seemed life would soon return to normal.
But his delight was subdued again somewhat when Molly's period arrived a little late once again, on the 25th.
"Apparently, I have been rendered sterile," he complained to Molly when she told him as they were getting ready for bed that night and she had just emerged from the bathroom.
Molly laughed. "Don't be ridiculous, Sherlock. Many people take ages to get pregnant. Look at how long it took Kaitlyn and David before they had Simon. And Lori told me last week that she and Greg have been trying for months for another baby so that Joseph can have a sibling. I think sometimes it takes longer too with couples who are a little older. My own eggs may not always be viable."
He pouted. "But Molly, our friends surely do not make love as often as we do. I do not know how it would be possible for an egg to not become fertilised, especially given how easily you got pregnant before."
He climbed into bed and held his arms out for her so she joined him. "Sherlock, for all we know, as I just said, my age may be contributing to things in producing non-viable eggs. And my period hasn't regulated either yet since the miscarriage."
He sighed, wrapping his arms around her and kissing her hair. "I'm sorry, Molly. I've been blessed so much, and at least it seems I can get back to doing what I love on a more regular basis, but I can't help still wanting to have another child with you, even more so since the miscarriage. I know I shouldn't feel cheated, but I do."
Molly reached up and curled her arms around his neck. "Believe me, I know how you feel. But I'm trying not to put pressure on myself and placing it in aGod's hands." She kissed him lightly, then said, "And there is one bonus to me having my period now."
He raised a brow at her. "And what might that be? There seems little to recommend it to me. I can't even make love to you as I would like."
She fluttered her eyelashes. "Maybe not, but if you think about it, we won't have to worry about it while we are away on our, shall we say, second honeymoon?" The words seemed appropriate, seeing as they would be returning to the same place.
As soon as she said the words, she regretted them as Sherlock made a sound of triumph. "Second honeymoon, my love? So, we are returning to the bed and breakfast, aren't we?"
Molly removed her hands from around Sherlock's heck and turned her back on him with a huff. Why did he always have to be so clever, even without thinking of it? And why hadn't she thought he'd guess when she phrased it that way?
But Sherlock wouldn't let her stay irritated. Instead, he slid an arm beneath her again and his other arm over her, pulling her close to his body. "Don't be cross, Molly." He kissed her neck, then sucked gently on her earlobe, making her shiver a little with pleasure. It really was too bad they couldn't make love. "I'm really delighted with this, my love. I can't think of a better way to spend our wedding anniversary than to recreate the idyllic setting of our honeymoon."
Molly smiled and turned to face him. "That's what I was thinking."
She supposed that, after all, it didn't matter that he had guessed where they were going. In fact, she was rather pleased he seemed so excited about it. And it was less than a week before they would be leaving, anyway.
Three days later, Molly wondered whether they should postpone their plans after she received a phone call while Sherlock was out on a case with John.
"Molly?" came Kayla's voice, sounding less composed than usual, rather anxious, in fact. "When did you know you were having a miscarriage?"
Molly's heart plummeted, and she swallowed. "I was having cramps the night before, then I started spotting." She rushed to add, "But that can be quite common in early pregnancy, Kayla."
Kayla's voice sounded tearful. "I don't think this is normal, Molly. I've been trying to tell myself it isn't happening, but in my heart I know I'm losing the baby."
Molly put a hand to her mouth and thought. If she had the car, she would have volunteered to take Kayla to A&E, even with the girls in tow, but Sherlock had taken it, and he had said he was picking up John. "I'm going to call Sherlock," she said at last. "He can drop John off to take you to A&E, and bring Rosie and Adam here. I know the girls will be happy to see them."
"Are you sure?" asked Kayla uncertainly.
"Absolutely, Kayla," she said firmly. "Hang in there. I'm so sorry. I'm going to call Sherlock right now."
Molly disconnected the call and told siri to call Sherlock's number.
To her relief, he picked up almost immediately. "Good timing, love," he said in a cheerful tone. "Case closed. We caught the bugger red han-"
Molly cut him off. "Sherlock, you need to get John home right now and then bring Rosie and Adam to our place. Kayal's having a miscarriage."
Sherlock's tone was immediately subdued. "Oh, God."
Molly could hear another phone ringing and John's voice saying, "Hey babycakes, what's up?"
Even as Sherlock said, "We're already on our way, only ten minutes from John's," Molly heard in the background a cry of anguish from John, and tears pricked her eyes.
"Okay, Sherlock, I'll see you soon."
Forty minutes later, Sherlock arrived with a rather confused Rosie and a fussy Adam in tow.
Molly opened the front door and Victoria, who Molly had told to expect a visitor followed her, exclaiming "Wosie!" even as Molly took Adam from Sherlock.
Sherlock and Molly tried to entertain the four children, which was certainly more challenging than taking care of two. Molly told Sherlock to play with the older girls while she took charge of Christina and Adam. Unfortunately, Adam was not to be appeased. He kept crying, "Mama."
Christina seemed affected by Adam's mood and began to cry as well. In despair, Molly picked up both children out of the playpen and awkwardly held them on her lap, rocking them both. 
 she wondered to herself as she made soothing sounds.
Thank God, Sherlock seemed to be having a more successful time of things, she thought as she heard giggles coming from where they were playing 
, even as both of the toddlers in her arms finally stopped grizzling and fell asleep.
Molly sat quietly, wondering how John and Kayla were doing, silently praying for them.
It was late afternoon when Molly heard Sherlock's phone ring. She couldn't hear what was said, he was still playing yet another game, but a few minutes later, he came into the room where Molly still sat with the sleeping toddlers.
At Molly's enquiring look, seeing no little girls following, he explained in a low tone."I cut up an apple for the girls to eat as a snack." His lips quirked. "I see you have your hands full, literally."
"You could say that. I'm assuming that was John calling?"
"Yes, they are on their way here now. Kayla's scan showed similar to what we saw, by what John said. Blighted ovum."
Molly sighed. "I feel so awful for them. We know only too well what lies ahead."
Sherlock reached to gently touch the heads of Christina and Adam. "John asked me more about your miscarriage and how we dealt with the sorrow when I was taking him home. I told him it was difficult, but we knew that God was with us." His eyes met Molly's. "Even though this is a tragedy for them, I'm now thinking that at least I knew what he will be going through, so I could really feel empathy. I guess God can use our own sorrows for a good purpose."
Molly glanced at the children, then back up at Sherlock. "I've always believed that God does that, uses tragic situations to bring about something good." She bit her lip. "Do you think we should postpone our plans for next week so that we can be here for our friends?"
"I think we should give them that option," he agreed sadly. "It's the right thing to do."
But when John and Kayla arrived, both with tear-stained faces, and Molly offered to put off their trip so they could be available for their friends, both John and Kayla refused.
"I know you've been looking forward to this trip," said Kayla. "The two of you are still healing from your own loss, Molly. You told me that was part of the reason you wanted to go away. You and Sherlock need it. John and I appreciate the offer, but we'll manage."
"Well, if you're absolutely sure..." said Molly, hesitating.
"We are," said John emphatically. He was holding Adam, who had awoken and seemed quite content, now that he was with his father. Molly still held Christina, while Rosie and Victoria were working on a puzzle together.
"Thank you so much for watching the children," said Kayla. "I hope they didn't give you any trouble."
"Of course not," lied Molly without regret. She wasn't going to tell their friends that Adam had had a rough time. "If there is anything you need, just let us know." She handed off Christina to Sherlock and hugged Kayla, then John. "We'll be praying for you."
Kayla gave her a wobbly smile as tears gathered in her eyes. "We appreciate it."
Sherlock and Molly stood together at the front door, Victoria waving goodbye and Christina at Sherlock's hip, as their friends left a few minutes later.
Molly's heart was still heavy, and the situation brought back the recent memories of their own loss. If the girls hadn't been present, she would have talked about it with Sherlock.
That night in bed, Molly cuddled into Sherlock. "I feel a little guilty about us going ahead with our plans."
He kissed her forehead. "I know, but they insisted. Tomorrow, perhaps we can make a meal for them as Kayla did for us after your miscarriage."
"That sounds like a good idea."
Although Molly still felt a little uneasy that she and Sherlock wouldn't be physically present if their friends needed them the following week, she knew if the situation had been reversed, she would have been adamant that John and Kayla not postpone their plans either.
At least there was one small positive. Now that there were no more restrictions, John and Kayla would be able to rely on Martha Hudson or Kayla's parents if they needed a babysitter. But again, Molly remembered that she and Sherlock had clung to their daughters even more after her miscarriage. So perhaps it would be the same for their friends.
Well, she resolved at last, as her eyes grew heavy, they would definitely have to call the Watsons while they were away, just to make sure they were doing okay, and to reassure their friends that they were praying for them.
Finally, soothed by Sherlock's hands rubbing her back gently, Molly slept.
 Yes, this was a rather intense first chapter of this story. The covid restriction details for the UK are accurate. As any of my regular readers would know, I always do my research.
For Sherlock's reaction to the second vaccine, it's a case of art imitating life. His experience was mine after my second dose. A few hours of misery the next day, and then all was fine.
I ask that nobody make any negative comments on receiving or not receiving the vaccine. We all have the freedom of choice and should respect the choice of others. I certainly am not in favour of vaccine mandates, even though I felt it was the right choice for me. We should all be able to research and weigh the pros and cons, then make a decision.
I know there were some sad elements to this chapter, with themes of depression and Kayla's miscarriage. Real life isn't easy with sunshine and flowers. And Kayla's miscarriage is part of my personal canon, according to my 
 story.
Anyway, the stage is set for the second honeymoon. Are you looking forward to it? What did you think of the first chapter?
