Squeals of happiness can be heard from Molly's kitchen as she runs away from Sherlock, her hands messy with baking ingredients. She clutches a bowl close to her and skirts around her counter.
"Sherlock! Nooo!"
"Just one lick, Molly! I just want the spoon!"
"Well you can't have it, and if you keep it up, I won't let you have any of the finished product either!"
Sherlock gasps and reels back like a wounded puppy. "Excuuuuse me? Who helped you make them!?"
"Um, excuuuse you, you only helped me make them because I was /teaching/ you how to make them. Or else you'd be just as clueless about it as you were an hour ago!"
Huffing, Sherlock sulks down at the counter and pouts his bottom lip. "I just wanted to try some."
"Well, you can try some when they're freshly baked. Now go get the baking sheet so we can roll them and put them on it."
"Oh, fine. But you /know/ gingernuts are my favorite", he sighs, sliding the baking sheet over to the front of them as Molly begins rolling the dough into balls and placing them on the cooking sheet.
"Yes, I do. But sometimes it's best to be patient, and this is one of those times. I promise."
Sherlock grovels some more as he helps her shape and place the dough.
"Y'know, you really should know more about this."
"Me? Why?"
"You do live on /Baker/ Street, don't you?", she winks and snorts a bit, giggling.
Sherlock blinks rapidly. "You can't really think that was a good joke, Molly."
She laughs and nudges his elbow. "Oh COME ON, Sherlock. Don't be so grumpy, just because I asked you to have some patience when it came to baking the gingernuts."
"I can't help it", he mutters, pouting and looking over at her. Molly leans up on her tiptoes and kisses him soundly, to his surprise.
Smirking softly on her lips, he drops the dough and wraps his arms around her middle, being careful not to actually touch her, so no dough remnants from his hands get on her clothing. The scent of the cookies intermingle with her vanilla-scented autumn perfume as he breathes in the smell of her and deepens the kiss, playing with her tongue.
Molly moans softly before pulling back and nuzzling his nose gently, biting her lip sexily. "Mm...how about we finish these up and while they're baking, I can distract you until they're finished. How does that sound?", she purrs, moving her lips close to his ear.
"It sounds like I definitely need the distraction", he growls playfully, nibbling at her jaw before releasing her. "I don't know what's more delicious now. You or your gingernuts."
"Your gingernuts aren't so bad either". Molly smirks then giggles, unable to contain herself.
Sherlock blushes and cracks a smile this time. "Okay I-I walked into that one. I got you", he chuckles a bit.
"Neither is your cinnamon stick", she laughs even harder. The sound of her laugh immediately drowns out any frustration Sherlock has as he begins to laugh too, the contagion setting in.
"Your jokes are so bad, Molly."
"So bad that they're so good, you mean!"
"I suppose", he snorts. "Now c'mon, let's finish rolling these so I can show you just how much I appreciate your honey buns as well."
Molly grins brightly as they quickly place the rest of the dough balls onto the baking sheet. She pops them into the oven, and they take turns washing their hands before she yanks him close by the collar and kisses him with unadulterated fervor.
Sherlock grabs her waist and presses her close as they snog, before lifting her around his waist, his hands on her arse. "Mhmm", he murmurs on her lips. "The sweetest honey buns in town, hands down...literally."
Molly squeals happily again as Sherlock sweeps them down the hall and into Molly's bedroom, showing her just how delicious he can be as well.
