Lestrade was sitting in his office. It had been a pretty quiet day considering he worked with Sherlock Holmes! Sherlock had been quiet all day which had been a surprise. He looked at his watch and then back at the papers on his desk. All of them had been filled in and that was how bored he was! He leaned back in his chair. He then noticed that Anderson and Sally were missing. His phone then rang.
"Lestrade." He answered.
"Inspector Lestrade. It's Constable Wilson." The person on the other side of the phone said.
"How have you got my number?" Lestrade was confused.
"Well someone I'm with had it on them and I didn't think it was a good idea to use my radio."
"Why not?"
"It's a bit of a personal problem and the people I'm with wanted to keep it quiet."
"And what do you want me to do about it?"
"I thought you'd better come down here and sort it out. You know before the whole of Scotland Yard gets involved."
"Fine. Where are you?"
"Baker Street." The constable said quietly.
Lestrade stopped writing down the address. He flicked his eyes over to the bullpen of the CID office. Luckily Anderson was missing because if he wasn't, then he would have a field day!
"Alright. I'll be straight down there." Lestrade sighed and put the phone down.
Lestrade groaned as he got out of his chair. Blimey, he felt old today! Sherlock was certainly taking the energy out of him. He just hoped it was nothing too serious. True knowing Sherlock it was probably just him shooting at the wall. His phone then rang again. He was popular today.
"Lestrade."
"Mycroft Holmes here." Mycroft's voice came over the phone.
"What do you want, Mycroft? I'm just about to go out on a case." Lestrade tried not to sound too annoyed.
"That's what I called about. You see.. Well it's a bit embarrassing really."
"Oh yes."
"Well I think I'm under arrest."
"You're what?!" Lestrade shouted down the phone.
"I think you'd better come and sort it out. We might need your help." Mycroft sounded worried.
"Sounds like it. I'll be there in a minute."
Lestrade ended another phone call. If Mycroft was involved then he really needed to be down there. Maybe he needed some back up.
"Has anyone seen DS Donovan?" Lestrade called the officers in the office.
"She went out an hour ago sir. Said something about meeting with someone to have lunch." One of them called back.
"And Anderson?"
"I'm supposing he did the same." The officer shrugged.
Lestrade rolled his eyes and left for Baker Street. Everyone was being very helpful today! He got in the car and called Anderson's mobile.
"Hi, this is Anderson. I can't get to the phone right now so please leave a message after the beep if it's important and if this is Sherlock Holmes, don't."
"Anderson, it's Lestrade. We've got a case at Baker Street and I really need back up if you're free. Also if you see Sally on the way can you tell her the same. Thanks."
Where was everyone? Anderson always answered his phone so why was today different. True Sally hadn't answered her phone either. Maybe they were ignoring him. Maybe they had a day off that he didn't know about. Maybe he was being paranoid. Maybe Sherlock was finally getting to his head.
000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000
When Lestrade got to Baker street, his car was surrounded by blue lights and about five police men. He got out and made his way to the closest officer.
"I'm afraid you can't go any further sir." The officer stopped him.
Lestrade showed his badge.
"I'm so sorry sir." The officer couldn't look anymore embarrassed.
"Don't worry about that now. What on earth is going on?" Lestrade enquired surveying the scene.
"We don't really know sir."
"What do you mean you don't know? Surely you've interviewed everyone and seen something."
"Well yes sir but we're having trouble finding out what happened. You see, the call for us was a bit vague." the officer scratched the back of his head as he said this.
"What information did they give you?" Lestrade crossed his arms trying to understand the situation.
"The address and that there was an incident that we needed to investigate. They didn't say what but they said we were needed." The officer sounded as vague as the call did.
"And when you got here?" Lestrade closed his eyes taking all of this in.
"They were all inside sir but they won't speak to me. That's why Constable Wilson called you. They'll only speak to you." The officer pointed to the first floor window.
Standing in the window was Mrs Hudson. Mrs Hudson was normally harmless so Lestrade knew it probably wasn't her fault. He then saw Sally's car outside the building.
"Is DS Donovan here?" Lestrade continued to ask.
"Well yes sir but also no at the same time. You see they were here before we got here." The officer confused Lestrade further.
"They?"
"DS Anderson is also here sir. They were here and it seems they were involved." The officer revealed.
"Right. Well wait out for a bit whilst I try and sort this out." Lestrade nodded as he walked past.
The officer let him under the police tape and into 221B Baker street. Lestrade kept his guard up as he didn't know exactly what he was going to find once he got in there and now Anderson and Sally were involved! It just seems like it was a big mess so far. Officers passed him on the way up the stairs. They were all chatting about something that Lestrade couldn't hear. True he wasn't really listening and was more concentrated on getting up the stairs.
"It's all your fault!" He Sherlock shout as he got closer to the flat.
"My fault?! How is this my fault?!" He heard Mycroft shout back.
By the sounds of it, it sounded like a sibling falling out. It wouldn't surprise Lestrade if Sherlock had rung the police just to arrest Mycroft. He sighed as he got to the door. It was shut, probably so the officers couldn't hear what they were talking about. Before he could open the door, he heard someone call his name down the stairs.
"Lestrade!"
Lestrade bent over the banister to see who it was. Molly was looking up at him. She soon smiled as she saw him and made her way up.
"I'm glad you're here. One of the officers called me telling me about this scene and I rushed here." Molly told Lestrade once she had caught up with him.
"Why did they call you? I mean no offence." Lestrade quickly added.
"None taken. I think one of them told the officer to ask for me. No idea why though." Molly shrugged.
The shouting had stopped from within the flat so they could obviously tell Lestrade and Molly were out there.
"You ready?" Lestrade sighed.
Molly didn't respond in words and just nodded instead. Lestrade reached for the door knob. He found it was locked.
"Stand back." Lestrade told Molly.
Molly did what she was told. Lestrade took a few steps back, made sure none of the other officers were watching and struck the door with his foot. The door stayed put.
"Wasn't that supposed to move?" Molly mumbled knowing it would annoy Lestrade.
"Yes it was. You're welcome to have a go." Lestrade waved at the door.
Lestrade didn't wait for an answer and tried again. This time the door moved but before Lestrade hit the door. Lestrade fell forwards and tumbled into the room. Lestrade put a hand to his head as he had banged it against the floor. He found everyone staring at him as he laid there.
"When we said we needed help inspector, this isn't exactly what we meant." Sherlock of course made the sarcastic comment.
"Very funny." Lestrade said, pushing himself off of the floor.
Molly closed the door behind her as Lestrade got up. Lestrade looked around. There they were. Sherlock, Watson, Mycroft, Sally, Anderson, Mary and Mrs Hudson. Mrs Hudson was the only one with her back to Lestrade. Everyone else was facing him. True Mrs Hudson never liked to get involved in cases. Not surprising when Sherlock stored body parts in the fridge. Lestrade moved his jacket and put his hands on his hips.
"Now is anyone going to tell me what's going on?" Lestrade asked.
The whole room went into total bedlam with everyone talking. Lestrade looked at Molly for some sort of support. She stayed quiet and slunk into the corner. Lestrade was going to have to sort this out and good luck to him.
