Sweat beads and trickles down his forehead and the sheets seem to stick to his skin as Sherlock thrashes around in bed, whimpering and muttering. He can't seem to escape his nightmare as it has a hold on him, making him yell out in despair.
"No! No, please! No! Molly!"
Molly startles awake next to him and rubs her eyes, seeing what's happening beside her. Grabbing Sherlock's arm, she intertwines their hands and strokes his cheek. "Sherlock! Sherlock, wake up, I'm right here. C'mon love, come back to me. Sherlock."
Right then Sherlock gasps sharply and jolts up, making Molly jump back. "Sherlock...it's okay, it was just a nightmare, love."
Sherlock searches the room with wild eyes as they adjust to the darkness, finally settling on Molly from where her voice came from. "M-Molly?"
"I'm here, Sherlock. It was just a nightmare. C'mere', she says softly, beckoning him back over to the bed.
He rushes back into bed and nearly tackles Molly in the biggest hug. "Molly…Molly, oh Molly. My Molly…it's really you."
Molly grunts with the force of his hug before settling into him. "Yes, I'm here. It's all right. Hey...", she coos soothingly as she pulls back and cups his face. "What was that all about, Sherlock? You're shaking."
He takes a shaky breath and cups her face, making sure she's real, before pressing his lips to hers. Molly kisses back lovingly and nuzzles his nose. "Do you want to talk about what happened?"
Sherlock swallows hard and Molly slides under the blanket, pulling him close into her arms as he lies his head on her chest.
"Y-you died...Eurus killed you...I-I couldn't get to you I couldn't s-stop it", he hiccups through a sob. "I didn't get to tell you that I loved you for real, that I need you."
"Ohh, Sherlock", she murmurs, stroking his damp curls. "You did tell me, you have me. I'm here. I love you too. I'm here as long as you want me."
"Always", he says softly, looking up at her. "I'll always want you and need you, you're mine, Molly, and I'm yours."
She smiles and kisses the tip of his nose, nodding and holding him close.
"I like when you hold me", he mumbles sleepily. "I like holding you too."
Molly chuckles lightly. "I know, love. Try to get some sleep, I've got you. I'm not going anywhere, cross my heart."
Sherlock nods and reaches over to kiss her arm before drifting back to sleep, a long week of cases and stress causing him sleep deprivation before tonight. Molly holds him in her arms as he sleeps, determined to protect him from his inner demons, just as much as he protects her from his outer demons.
