Molly was humming that tune again and it was driving Sherlock mad. It had been happening on and off for the last week or so and he couldn't get it out of his head. There was something nagging at the back of his mind, some memory, long forgotten, or was it deleted, connected to that tune.
Finally, he had to ask her what it was and why she was humming it.
'What? That? Sorry, I hadn't realised I was humming it. It's just a tiktok video that I saw recently.'
'So, it's a modern song then? Something was telling me it was old.'
Molly's forehead creased up as she frowned at him and he found himself wanting to smooth away the wrinkles. Thoughts like this, regarding Molly, had been getting more and more frequent, and part of him knew he was going to have to address them sooner rather than later…he just wasn't sure how.
'Oh, it is. At least the song is. The tiktok video is new though…there's this really cute guy who lip-syncs…sorry, that's not what you want to know about is it?'
Sherlock shook his head disapprovingly but he wasn't really angry with her in any way. He could never be angry with Molly.
'The song Molly?' He said expectantly.
'Right…yes…it's Mandy by Barry Manilow. But why do you want to know?'
Sherlock shrugged as he walked back to his microscope. 'I'm not sure. It's familiar somehow.'
'Well, it was huge in the 70s so maybe your parents liked it.'
That was it! The memories suddenly came flooding back. It was as if he was six years old again, sitting at the breakfast table, watching his mum and dad laughing and dancing around the kitchen together as the song played on the radio. His dad was singing along but changing the words to Oh Violet and his mum was blushing and giggling. They were so in love, always had been, but it was the first time that Sherlock had really recognised the concept of romantic love.
Mycroft had been sat opposite him. Thirteen years old and sneering, asking his parents to stop being embarrassing. But they hadn't stopped, they'd just kept on dancing until the final note had played.
As Sherlock came out of his reverie he looked around, realising he was alone in the lab, Molly must have left to go and carry out her next autopsy. He was tempted to go and join her. His memories of his own parents and their, to this day, enduring love for each other, had him more sure than ever of his own feelings. But then he had another idea and he smiled to himself as he picked up his phone.
JWJWJWJWJWJWJWJWJWJWJWJW
John was between patients when his phone rang; Sherlock's name flashing up on the screen. He grinned and couldn't help hoping that Sherlock had a case which would take him away from the drudgery of his daily clinic.
'Hey Sherlock, what's up?'
He listened to his friend with ever increasing bafflement.
'Hang on, go back just a minute, you want me to do what? And more importantly, why?'
MHMHMHMHMHMHMHMHMHMHMH
It was a couple of days later that Molly made her way to the bar that John had mentioned in his text. Apparently, they were belatedly celebrating his birthday which had taken place almost a month ago. That was strange enough but to top it all John had assured her that Sherlock was even going to attend. He never attended birthday events…not if he could help it, even if it was his best friend.
When she got there the place was packed with people and it took her a moment to even spot anyone she recognised. Of course, it had to be Sherlock she saw first, making her stomach swoop and her heart skip a beat. Even after all these years of unrequited love he never stopped making her feel like a teenager with her first school crush and she was pretty sure now that that was never going to change.
She took a breath and made her way over to the bar where he was waiting to be served.
'Hey Sherlock, I'm surprised to see you here. I didn't think birthday celebrations were your thing.'
'Molly,' he bent down and kissed her on the cheek and she could smell him, freshly showered with light spray of some sexy cologne, and it made her mouth water. She added the memory to the two other similar kisses she received from him; wishing she had her own mind palace to keep them in.
He asked her what she wanted, adding it to his order, before he answered her question.
'Well, for your information I suggested it. I thought it would be good for us to get together.'
Molly knew she look as disbelieving as she felt, she must have misheard, after all it was loud in the venue. Sherlock couldn't possibly have said it was his idea. Before she could clarify though, the drinks were being handed over, and Lestrade had joined them to help carry them over to the table.
They were just to the right of a small stage, set up with a professional looking karaoke machine, which was currently being used by a very untalented guy singing a rock song. He obviously knew the chorus and hadn't realised that the verses were as difficult to sing as they were, but he was playing up to the laughter and still having a good time. Molly wasn't sure she'd be quite so brave herself. She'd never been that happy to sing in public.
She greeted the rest of the group, which consisted of a few of Lestrade's colleagues, Anderson and Donovan, as well as Mike from work and a couple of John's friends that she'd vaguely met at other events. John stood and greeted her and looked a bit embarrassed when she handed over her birthday gift to him.
'Oh, you didn't have to. I mean, it was ages ago.'
'I know, but we're celebrating it now…and, well, I'm sorry I didn't remember nearer the time. Thanks for inviting me though, it's good to get out. I'm still surprised that Sherlock's here. However, did you manage it?'
John chuckled. 'Honestly, I know you won't believe me, but it was his idea.'
Molly shook her head. 'Really? That's so unlike him.'
John shrugged. 'I know, but he has his reasons. You'll see. Anyway, come on, sit down.'
The others all budged up a bit and she found herself sitting between John and Sherlock. There wasn't much room and she was conscious that her leg kept bumping against Sherlock's but he didn't seem to mind and she tried not to obsess over it too much, but it was just so strange being out like this with him.
'So, Molly, are you going to sing?'
It was Sally who asked and Molly shook her head looking horrified.
'God, no. No one wants to hear my voice. How about you?'
Sally was flicking through the list of songs and nodded. 'I might. I'm trying to persuade Greg and Phil that we should sing something together. It's always safer in a group, don't you think?'
Molly nodded and watched as a young woman started to sing a beautiful rendition of a song by Adele. She wished she could sing like that.
As the woman's song came to an end Molly was conscious of Sherlock standing up, but she didn't think much of it. He was probably off to the loo or the bar. So, when he walked up to the stage and lithely jumped up, Molly could not have been more shocked. She could see from the expressions on everyone else's faces that they felt the same.
The only one not looking shocked was John.
Molly leant closer to him and tapped his arm to get his attention. 'What the hell is he doing John? Is this for a case?'
John shook his head. 'Nope, definitely not that.'
So, what? He's not actually going to sing is he?'
'Just wait and see.'
Her attention moved back to the stage as Sherlock cleared his throat and the music started. At first she didn't recognise the piano music or even the start of the song. She was entranced by Sherlock's voice though. He was confident, a good singer, and it almost felt as if he was looking directly at her as he sang.
She leant forward, her chin resting on her hands and she could feel her heart thrumming in her chest. All of a sudden she realised which song it was, and her mouth fell open a little in shock. It was Mandy, the song she'd been humming only the other day at work. She remembered Sherlock asking her what it was.
The verse built up to the first rendition of the chorus and when he sang it she was frozen in shock. He'd changed the words.
'Oh Molly, well you came and you gave without taking but I sent you away. Oh Molly, will you kiss me and stop me from shaking, well I need you today, oh Molly.'
Now her heart was doing more than thrumming in her chest, it was thundering. She sat back in her chair, staring wide eyed at Sherlock, who just kept his eyes focused on her as he sang. The next verse just passed in a blur until once again he was singing that chorus, his voice rising as he stepped closer to her side of the stage, and he lifted his hand as he sang 'and I need you…'
As the music fell silent Sherlock just gave her an enigmatic smile, and then turned to leave the stage, ignoring the round of applause he was getting from the rest of the room. Molly glanced around at the others to find every pair of eyes firmly fixed on her.
'Oh my God,' was all Sally could manage whilst the rest seemed speechless.
All too soon Sherlock was back at their table, but instead of sitting down he just placed his hand on Molly's shoulder to get her attention.
She turned and looked up at him, realising that she was shaking with what…stress, nerves…she had no idea what this all meant. At least…she had a hope, but it just seemed an impossible hope.
'Molly, a word?'
He held out his hand. Tentatively she placed hers in his grasp and let him pull her to her feet. She felt as if she was in a dream as he led her through the venue and out into the fresh, night air. Thankfully, it was a relatively warm evening and the coolness of the air just served to bring Molly more to her senses.
'Did that just happen?' She loosely waved her hand towards the doors. 'Did you just…' she didn't quite know how to word it, but thankfully Sherlock took over.
'Did I just declare myself in song by serenading you? I did. Question is, did you like it?'
For a moment Molly was speechless as she tried to comprehend what he'd said and what had just happened.
'So…so you…you have feelings for me?'
He nodded, 'I do.'
'Romantic feelings?'
'Not just romantic feelings Molly. I'm in love with you. 100 percent, unequivocally. I love you Molly Hooper..'
'Oh you...you..love me? And you want to act on this…with me I mean?' Molly just felt utterly befuddled and knew she was at risk of babbling.
At that he chuckled and took a step closer. He lifted one eyebrow and smirked. 'Very much so. In fact, if you have no objections I'd really, really like to kiss you. Will that be alright?'
Molly knew she was blushing. She felt like an unkissed thirteen-year-old as she shyly nodded her head and nervously looked up at him, waiting to see if he'd actually act on his words.
He moved slowly, whether it was from nerves himself, or because he was wary not to spook her more than she was already feeling, but it seemed to happen in slow motion.
One hand moved to her waist, pulling her closer, until her hands landed on his chest. They rested on the smooth, expensive material of his dark, blue shirt.
She saw his face move closer, his eyes closing, and just as his lips met hers, her own eyes fluttered shut. Then she felt it. The press of his mouth on hers, kissing her and coaxing her to open up for him until they were truly kissing. It was everything she could have asked for and more, in a kiss with a new man. But he was more than just that to her, he was Sherlock Holmes, and the realisation that it was him kissing her made her knees feel weak. She was glad he was so strong, able to hold her up and secure her to him, as the kiss progressed.
By the time their lips parted they were both blatantly affected and breathing heavily. His eyes searched hers and she felt as if she could see into his very soul, and all there was was endless love…for her. Her life was quite simply never going to be the same again and she couldn't wait to start it.
He breathlessly whispered two words into her ear. 'Oh Molly!' Then he kissed her again.
