Molly beams as she lightly raps on Cassie's bedroom door, unable to contain her excitement for her.
"Come in", she says softly, wiping off yet another layer of misapplied eyeliner in frustration while sitting at her small vanity.
"Ohh sweetheart, are you excited?"
Blushing slightly, she shrugs. "It's just a stupid dance. Dances aren't my thing. Girly things aren't my thing", she sighs heavily.
"Molly rubs her back gently and pulls up a seat next to her. "You don't have to go, you know. I'd never make you do something you didn't enjoy. You know that. I just think it's a valuable experience for young women to get to go to their prom."
Cas turns toward her and looks at her hands a bit. "I'm going because Jake asked me, and if there's anything he needs this year, it's some semblance of happy memories. He's my best friend, and I-I couldn't say no when he asked. You should have seen his face, Mum. He looked so nervous and excited, and I couldn't let him down. Plus...if I should go, I'd prefer it to be with him. So I just want everything to be perfect so that he has a good night. I want to make it happy and fun and memorable for him. I don't want to drag him down with my negativity and such."
"You're a good friend, Cas. You've always been good to him, and I think that it's very noble to do this, despite how you feel about dancing, so you can make him smile."
She blushes and smiles slightly. "When he's happy, I'm happy. Maybe it's because we grew up together, and you probably wouldn't understand, but it's like...we bounce our emotions off of each other. Which says a lot because you know I'm not one to get all mushy. It's just nice to have a best friend like him that I can talk to and lean on that knows how I am and that I'm completely comfortable with, and he knows he can feel the same with me."
"I think that's a really remarkable thing to have with someone. Now, c'mere", Molly smiles, picking up the eyeliner. "Can I help? I'm no expert, but I won't smudge it."
Cassie smiles cutely and nods. "Thanks, Mum. I'm no good at being girly", she snorts.
"I think that depends on how you define 'girly', but not everyone is interested in makeup and dancing and such. Everyone is different. Doesn't make you any less of a young lady", she says, tipping her chin and looking into her eyes. "You are an amazing young woman, Cassidy. Dad and I are so proud of you, and we love you so much, no matter what."
She throws her arms around Molly's neck and hugs her tightly, burying her face into her shoulder. "I love you too." Smiling, she sits back and allows Molly to do her makeup, nervous about how different she will look, but wondering how Jake will react at the same time. Hopefully in a good way.
Once Molly is finished helping her with her makeup, Cassie gets up and grabs her dress from her closet, holding it up on the hanger and giving it a once over, hoping she had chosen the right one.
Molly grins brightly. "Oh, Cas you look so beautiful in that dress. You'll be the prettiest one there."
"Thanks", she chuckles softly, taking it off of the hanger, and placing it on her bed. "And thanks for taking me shopping and letting me figure out which one looked best on me. I know that many girls look good in pinks and blues and such, but I think with my more olive-toned skin, this shade of yellow looks the best on me. It means a lot that you don't ever pressure me into things that you may like and that you've always let me express myself. You've been the best parents I could have ever dreamed of after I lost mine, and you always will be."
"Well, I wouldn't force you into wearing something you hated. That would make you miserable and you wouldn't have a fun time. I just want you to have fun and really enjoy it. Just consider it like hanging out with Jake, just at a fancy event. The clothes don't make you who you are, Cas. You do."
"I know, Mum", she smiles softly, hugging her again. "I'm going to get dressed. Can you let me know when Jake's here? Text me or something?"
"Of course. I'll be downstairs waiting for photos!", she giggles, slipping out of the room and closing the door.
Cassie rolls her eyes fondly then takes a deep breath, a wave of nervousness washing over her. She really wants to impress Jake, despite knowing that he will compliment her regardless. Slipping into her dress, she looks in the mirror and stares at herself for a moment. She hardly recognizes her own reflection, as she hasn't worn a dress since she was a kid, and she never wears makeup, except for very light mascara on occasion.
Chewing on her lip with anxiousness, she puts her silver flats on and puts in some matching earring studs. Looking in her closet, she grabs the matching clutch and her phone, glancing at the notifications. She has a text from earlier in the day/
{Can't wait for tonight. I hope you aren't dreading it too much! x Jake}
Her heart skips a beat as she reads it over, smiling at how much he knows her, but jittery about why she feels more for him lately.
Sitting back down at her vanity, she decides to curl her hair lightly in loose waves. After a few moments, she gets a text that Jake is there, and she can feel her pulse speed up rapidly.
.
.
Sherlock and Molly open the door to Jake and grin happily, letting him in the house.
Jake smiles shyly, blushing as he holds up a pale-yellow corsage. He looks dapper in his dark suit and equally pale-yellow tie. It's the color that Cas had told him to get to match her dress.
"Jake, you look so handsome! Cas is just finishing up, I'll let her know you're here, okay?"
"Sure. Thanks, Mrs. Holmes."
She smiles and nods. "You know you can call me Molly but thank you for always being so polite."
"I know, I guess I'm just feeling particularly fancy tonight", he chuckles softly.
Sherlock pats his shoulder and smiles as well. "Nice suit."
"Thanks. It's a rental, but I made sure it fit me well. I remembered your advice about well-fitting suits", he laughs.
"Thank God", Sherlock chuckles. "I don't know if I would have let you take Cas to the dance if you had a sloppy suit."
"I know", he smirks. "That's why I tried on dozens of them."
Sherlock grins proudly. "Good man."
They walk to the bottom of the staircase, Jake becoming increasingly nerve-wracked and clasping his hands in front of him. Molly grins and arrives at the top, calling down to them.
"Here she comes!", she squeals happily as she rushes down the stairs to see her walk down in her dress.
Cassie appears at the top of the stairs looking gorgeously fancy, and she begins her decline down the steps as Molly snaps photos.
Jake stares at her and his jaw nearly hits the floor, his heart nearly beating out of his chest as his eyes follow her. He feels as if it goes in slow motion, reminiscent of a fairy tale.
Sherlock smirks and gently pulls Molly aside to give them some space for a moment.
She reaches the end of the stairs and blushes softly, looking into Jake's eyes. "Hey, you."
"Hey you", he whispers. "Wow..."
Cas chuckles softly and strokes a curl behind her ear. "Yeah, I know. I look..."
"Beautiful. Gorgeous. Perfect. Take your pick", he smiles handsomely.
"Oh hush", she nudges him playfully and smirks. "You look nice yourself y'know. You clean up well."
"Thank you. For the record, you're always beautiful, Cas. You just look so different, in a nice way. I'm in awe. Also, your dress is fantastic; it looks so great on you."
She smiles brightly and blushes a little. "Thanks. I must've tried on dozens", she scoffs playfully.
"Really? I must've tried on dozens of suits too. I had to impress your dad as well. The two toughest Holmes's to impress...it wasn't easy finding the right fitting one."
Cassie laughs and hugs him. Jake hugs her close and grins. "Oh! I have your corsage."
"Oh yeah", she smiles. "Your tie matches my dress perfectly too. That's awesome."
Jake nods and takes the corsage out of the box, carefully tying it around her wrist. Cassie can't help but feel butterflies in her stomach at the concentrated look on his face and the softness of his touch.
"Hey, Jake?"
"Yeah?", he replies, looking up at her, a boyish grin on his face.
"I know we joke about how I don't like dances and how this is crazy for me and everything, but remember how we promised to be honest more?"
He nods and begins to look concerned. "I remember. Do you not want to go? Because if you really don't want to, it's okay. I wouldn't be angry or anything, maybe just a tad disappointed. But we could order a pizza and hang out instead. It's only fun if you're also enjoying yourself, Cassie."
She grins. "Well that's very sweet, but I was going to say that I'm a bit excited. A bit. I want to go with you, and it'll be good."
Jake raises an eyebrow and grins. "Wowww, okay. Awesome. That's unexpected."
"Well, I did say I'd try and express what I'm feeling more externally. So that's how I feel...it makes me happy to see you happy and I think we'll have an enjoyable time."
"Aww look at Cas being all mushyyy. I thought that was my job", he laughs softly and wraps an arm around her. She grins and hugs his side.
"Yeah, it is your job, you're as mushy as slime", she giggles.
"Oh shhh, you know you appreciate that! Sometimes at least", he snorts.
Sherlock and Molly rejoin them, and they pose for the obligatory photos. Abby and Maddy arrive home from a friend's house and gasp at the sight of her, giggling in excitement.
Abby squeals. "Oh my God!"
"Cassie, you look so pretty!", Maddy exclaims, also signing with her hands due to her quickly failing hearing aids.
"Who did your makeup? Did Mum do it? Damn, I would've done it!", Abby croons, admiring her makeup.
"Yes, Mum did it", Cas chuckles and admits, hugging them both. "Thanks for the compliments, guys."
They go up to their room and Jake holds out his hand to Cassie. She grins and places her in his, her stomach doing cartwheels when he brings her hand up to his lips and kisses it.
"Mi'lady", he announces dramatically and waves his arm out towards the door. "I believe our chariot awaits!"
Laughing, she follows him out to the car. Sherlock comes out with the keys and smiles. "Looks like you both got lucky to have me as the driver. Molly wouldn't have been able to keep her mouth shut in all her excitement. The dance is until ten, correct?"
"Yes, ten."
"Okay, I'll pick you both up at ten then. If you want me to come get you early, you can always call me. You know that right?"
"We know, Dad. Thanks."
He nods and drives them to the dance, letting them out at the entrance, which is adorned with a large colorful balloon arch.
.
.
Jake can hear his blood pumping through his ears with how nervous he is to be here with Cassie. There is no way in hell he would want to jeopardize their friendship, especially after twelve years, but recently he can't seem to get her out of his head. She's always been perfect to him, but when she had asked him a few weeks ago if he was thinking of bringing a girl to prom, he was taken aback because despite knowing he should probably ask any other girl, he has only ever needed her. He only wanted to take her, regardless of what she chose to wear. Hell, he would have shown up in sweats if that's what Cassie wanted.
Once they approach the front entrance, he bites his lip and slowly reaches over, taking her hand carefully. For a moment he believes that she'd pull hers away but is pleasantly surprised when she doesn't. Instead, she squeezes his hand and smiles over at him softly.
Squeezing Jake's hand, Cassie could feel the tightness around her heart dissolve, knowing that there is no need to be worried or nervous around Jake. It's Jake for God's sake. Her best friend in the world. The little kid she grew up knowing. There's no need to be nervous at all. But if that's true, why would she feel so anxious and have all these butterflies in his stomach?
They walk into the dance hall and find seats near the corner of the room, Jake leading the way. Cassie grins cutely at how he just knows where she would be most comfortable sitting. He pulls her seat out for her and she sits, smiling up at him. "Thank you."
"You're welcome", he grins. "I'll go and get us some punch, how's that?"
"That sounds good", she chuckles.
Jake nods and smiles, going over to the snack table as Cassie watches, a million thoughts running through her head. He returns to the table with two glasses and a small plate of snacks for them. They talk nearly the whole time, pausing only to get up and dance badly to their favorite upbeat songs and return to their table to talk and joke around some more, judging their classmates playfully.
As the last hour of the dance approaches, a romantic slow song comes on. They both fall a bit silent as the room does, and Jake fiddles with his hands, wiping his palms on his trousers lightly. He swallows, then takes a breath. "Oh what the hell", he mutters.
"Uhh, Cas...er..."
Cassie looks at him and smiles nervously. "Yes?"
"May I have this dance?", he asks quietly and shyly.
She blushes and looks up at all of the couples dancing closely and swallows hard. When she looks back at Jake it looks like he's been completely deflated. "I-it's okay, stupid idea. Crazy, actually", he stutters softly.
Cassie grabs his hand and stands up. "No. It's not. I want to. Let's dance. Ut I can't promise I won't step on your toes, so no complaining", she grins.
His face lights up and he smiles cutely. "You've got it."
They escort each other onto the dance floor and Jake's face turns red as he pulls her close, snaking one hand around her waist and holding her hand with his free one.
Cassie holds his hand and swallows thickly, realizing just how close their faces are as he gently leads the dance. "You're a good dancer", she whispers.
"You're a good partner", he whispers back. She blushes gently, smelling the fruit punch on his breath as it ghosts her cheek. Goosebumps arise on her arms at how tender his hold is, and his words are.
They look at each other at the same moment and lock eyes, both of them freezing in the moment, heart hammering within their chests. As the song begins to come to an end, Jake gently lowers his forehead onto hers. "Thank you."
"For what?" she asks quietly.
"Being you. Being amazing, being everything I've always needed", he replies, blushing more. "I-...I really care about you, Cas. I hope you know that."
"I do know that. I feel that. I see that", she murmurs, lifting her free hand to gently stroke his cheek. "I always do."
"Cassie", he whispers, slowly nuzzling her nose.
"Jake", she says softly, nuzzling his nose as well.
He looks into her eyes and strokes her cheek softly. "I-..."
Cas knows that he will destroy himself if he decides to make a move and there's any fallout. Without thinking, she leans forward and presses her lips against his before he begins to ramble like he usually does when he's nervous. He gasps and his eyes flutter closed as he kisses back lovingly, bringing his other hand up to cradle her face.
Her eyes slip closed as well as she returns the kiss, never knowing how incredible it could feel to kiss someone; to kiss /Jake/. Her best friend. But it does, it feels warm and soft and utterly /right/.
It feels like it lasted forever once they pull away, staring into each other's eyes, both stunned by what they had just shared. Love and fear flash through both of their eyes, and time seems to stop.
