Sherlock huffs as he finally returns to Baker Street. His week has been packed full of cases, and he has had no time for anything else if he wants to clear his inbox for a while. A feeling of loneliness washes over him at the quiet. He and Molly have been taking turns sleeping at each other's homes for quite some time now; they became official about three months ago.
Unfortunately due to the pandemic and a large shortage of hospital workers, including morgue staff, Molly has been on call, and they haven't seen each other face to face in at least a week. Sherlock never knew how truly amazing being in a relationship could be, despite John's advice, until she wasn't around as often. When they are busy, he misses her face and her voice and everything else about her.
He strides into the bathroom to shower and sees a sticky note on the mirror.
Sherlock smiles and takes it off, reading it again before stripping and getting into the shower. That is such a typical Molly thing to do; take time out of her day to leave him a note when they can't be around each other due to whatever circumstance.
Once he is sufficiently washed, he steps out of the shower and wraps a towel around his waist, moving into his bedroom and to his dresser to grab some underwear. On his top drawer is another sticky note.
His face flushes pink, and he wishes more than ever that she wasn't working right now. Pulling his underwear on and drying off the rest of his body, Sherlock can't help but smile at the little notes.
Next, he heads into the kitchen and grabs a TV dinner from the freezer. He's practically starving, running on only small snacks here and there during the course of solving cases. As he goes to put his food in the microwave, he is surprised by yet another note.
Unable to keep himself from rolling his eyes, he also has a huge grin plastered on his face as he puts his food in the microwave to cook.
Once ready, he grabs a fork and brings it over to his leather chair, sinking into it with a content sigh, his muscles a bit achy and his body tired from working so hard. He looks around to see if there are any more notes for him, and lo and behold, there is one on the small table.
Sherlock takes her advice and finishes every last bit of his dinner before heading to sleep, feeling happy but wanting her there badly. He brushes his teeth and makes sure his curls are doing all right as they dry, then returns to his bedroom. Pulling the covers down, he sees yet another note, which was hidden, taped to his sheets.
Sherlock sends her a text, even though he knows she won't see it until later.
{I love you too. Thanks for the notes, and yes, I ate, so don't worry. I hope I see you soon. xoxo SH}
Charging his phone on his nightstand, he climbs into bed and turns the light off. He drifts off to sleep shortly after, the fast pace of the past week overcoming his busy mind enough to silence it.
.
.
Molly rubs her eyes as she trudges in the door of 221B Baker Street, being careful to be quiet. She wearily slips into the bathroom, stripping down and moving under the stream of the shower, letting out a large sigh as the heat relaxes her tense muscles. She makes quick work of washing, wanting to get to bed already.
Stepping out of the shower, she tosses on her undergarments and throws her clothes from the day into the washer before tiptoeing into Sherlock's bedroom and sliding under the sheets, curling up against him.
Sherlock stirs and pulls her closer into his arms, murmuring "Mm...you're here."
Smiling tiredly, she nods and pecks his lips. "Mhm, I'm here."
"Good. I wanted you close all week."
"Me too", she says softly, nuzzling his chest. "I love you."
"I love you too, Molly. Thanks for the notes."
"You're welcome, love. Let's get some rest now, we have tomorrow to spend together."
Sherlock nods sleepily and pulls her as close as he can, settling back into dreamland. Molly closes her eyes and dozes off soon after, both of them thankful for the next day.
