Molly laughs as her coworkers stare at her in shock and then walk away. It's the same reaction she gets every year, so you would think that they'd remember or at least know by now that it's all in good fun.
For God's sake, she's not meeting with any families today, and if she were she obviously wouldn't be so heinous about her choice in Halloween costume. To be honest, she'd love to wear her costume every year on Halloween, even when she did have to meet grieving familes. However, it's highly unlikely that they would take it well at all. Seemingly like her snippy coworkers. Oh well.
All that matters is that Mike Stamford thinks it's hilarious, and of course, so does Sherlock. For a woman who is typically terrible at jokes, this one is actually funny but does have a terrible aspect of darkness, which in its own right makes her choice even more comical. Some would say it was a silly tradition started by a bleak, terrible woman with a dark sense of humor only for attention. But it really wasn't.
Molly started the tradition in University. They were allowed to dress in whatever they liked for classes, and most students wore costume on Halloween of course. Since Molly had path lab nearly every day, she decided that going as a zombie on Halloween would be a hilarious prank on the teacher. There were years she had gone as the Angel of Death as well, but that didn't require as much makeup and the societal views on death which when turned into a costume, added up to lots of black and things reminiscent of evil, such as the grim reaper.
Molly knows better than that though, being a mortuary worker. Death in and of itself is not inherently evil, nor inherently good. It's just /is/. It's the most neutral thing that exists.
Yes, people die through malicious intent and evil ways, but that equated to the person who murders them. Death isn't the action, it's the result. A true medium.
So showing up as a zombie to path lab, or to her job now is always exciting. She loves seeing everyone's reactions, whether they be good or bad. So many times she has been asked if anyone was still actually alive in her morgue, like on TV shows.
One intern a few years ago even asked her if she thought zombies existed or if she thought there was a medical way to bring back the dead that transformed them into zombies, either humanly conscious or empty carcasses with brain waves of animation.
She could have given him the long winded answer, but she only sated his curiosity by telling him that even if it were possible, it shouldn't be known to be possible because of what could happen if that compound was put into the wrong hands for the wrong reasons. That shut him up quickly.
Molly smirks to herself as she continues her paperwork, snacking on a few of the mini candies she had put in a bowl on her desk. She always ended up eating them all. It's not like the sick kids would ever visit the morgue for hospital trick or treating.
Suddenly she hears a knock or her door and looks up. A plastic vampire teeth clad Sherlock Holmes stood there, on hand in his pocket and the other placed on the door to her office.
Molly giggles and grins. "Oh, vampire this year, hm?"
Sherlock nods and chuckles, putting the fake teeth into his Belstaff pocket. "I know you go in for that sort of thing….clearly. It's difficult to make out my girlfriend's face under all that gorey makeup. Really, Molly."
"Well the utter laziness that's put into making a costume for yourself is just as shocking. Plastic Fangs? That's it? I should be offended."
"Hmm I'm shocked you're not a witch", he smirks.
Molly faux gasps and twitches her nose. "You'd never know. Maybe I'm a witch pathologist who guises herself as a zombie on Halloween because being a witch on Halloween is too obvious."
Sherlock raises an eyebrow as if he could believe her if he ever thought the supernatural was real—which he adamantly does not.
"Does this certain witch zombie pathologist want to go home with me? I can show you what a vampire can do in bed", he winks.
"Sherlock!", Molly hisses, blushing profusely. "I just finished up. Also, I shouldn't be this turned on by that sentence, and yet...
"Because you know you love when I nibble and bite as your sensitive flesh", he smirks devilishly.
Molly face flames red under all the makeup. "Damn, are you a vampire or the devil?"
"Doesn't matter if you want me", he winks.
"Okay okay, you forced my hand. Let's go" Molly exclaims, locking up her office and taking his hand. But you have to wear the fangs all the way home. You look sexy with them."
"Yes ma'am", Sherlock replies, smirking and leading her out to the car, hopeful for a night of naughty romance and crazy stories about Molly's previous Halloween costume endeavours.
