Molly pulls up to her and Sherlock's newest home and can't help but smile with pride through a large yawn. Today had been one of the most taxing days at work this year and she had worked thirteen hours on her feet.
Exiting her car, she groans softly as her feet hit the ground, aching like a heartbeat with every step toward the front door. Working longer hours to pay for their children's schooling, as well as their newer, larger home with all the bells and whistles is worth it, but her body often times does not agree. Molly knows Sherlock feels the same way, as his caseload has nearly tripled in the last year.
Unlocking the door, she sheds her belongings and her coat, and quickly takes her shoes off, sighing with some relief as her sock clad feet hit the soft carpet. Suddenly, Molly hears the door close behind her and feels arms wrap around her waist. She can tell by the smell of his Belstaff that it's Sherlock, and she smiles tiredly as he nuzzles her neck.
"Ughhhnnn", he groans loudly into her neck. "I don't think I've ever needed sleep this badly. And that says something because we have a bunch of little kids."
Molly giggles softly and runs her hand through his curls. "Me too. Today was the worst, the morgue was slammed. Why don't we go up and thank Cas for watching the younger ones today, and tuck them all in, hm? Then we can finally get to sleep."
He nods, and takes her hand, going upstairs. They peek into Cassie's room and see her finishing up her homework. They thank her for babysitting the younger kids and bid her goodnight. Then they check up on the rest of them, give them all kisses on the head as they sleep and tuck them in.
Moving to their bedroom, they both brush their teeth, change into cozy pjs fairly quickly, and climb into their recently new bed, moaning at the softness of it after a long, hard day.
Sherlock pulls Molly close and strokes her cheek softly. "I'm sorry you had a hard day. I wish I could've stopped by."
"It's okay, Sherlock. You worked yourself to the bone with cases. I understand."
"I love you, Molly."
"I love you too."
Molly leans in and kisses him softly before they lie their heads on their pillows, gazing at each other lovingly. Before either of them know it, they had both fallen asleep in each other's arms, their faces close and their hearts closer.
