"I hate the dentist. I hate it, I hate it!", Molly whines as Sherlock escorts her to the oral surgery office. She's getting a wisdom tooth out that she had been ignoring for years that had suddenly become a nuisance.
"I know, and I don't blame you Moll, but think of it this way. One more week of manageable pain and you will never ever have to deal with it again. You're the strongest woman I know. You can do this. Hell, teenagers do this."
"It's a whole hell of a lot easier for teenagers, Sherlock. Even medically, the root of the tooth isn't set into the bone in the teen years, but mine is."
Sherlock gives her a kiss on the cheek and snakes an arm around her waist softly. "Molly, you've been through some of the most imaginable things. Getting a tooth out doesn't even come close to making that list. You can do this, love. I'll be right here waiting for you when you come out. I promise."
"You won't laugh at me or cringe at how ugly I am when my face is all blown up like a pufferfish?", she pouts.
Sherlock can't help but stifle a chuckle at how adorable she looks. "Oh, Molly. You've seen me in the worst shape of my life. I think I can overlook some bruising and puffiness and a bit of giddiness for a few days. I love you and nothing could ever take away from that. I promise", he murmurs softly, cupping her face.
Molly takes a shuddering breath and nods hugging him close and pressing a kiss onto his lips. "You better enjoy these kisses right now because you aren't getting any for a week. Believe me, you won't want any." Molly makes a fake gagging motion. "Blood and stitches and oozing and terrible tastes...dental stuff is not my niche."
"I can tell", he laughs, lacing their fingers together. "I better enjoy some kisses now then, before we go in", he smirks, pulling her close and kissing her slow and deep.
Molly raises an eyebrow and smiles, melting into the kiss and returning it identically. They snog for a few minutes until it's time for Molly to check in. She groans in dismay and squeezes his hand tightly, her anxiety beginning to get the better of her.
"I will never understand how you can cut up cadavers all day, but you are terrified of the dentist."
"Because I'm not slicing myself up, and neither is anyone else on the daily. And /now/ I'm being sliced and prodded and bloodied."
Sherlock chuckles and kisses her hand. "Well I suppose even pathologists are afraid of something", he smirks. "Molly it's a common procedure. One little incision, a few tugs, maybe a drill here or there-"
"Stop!", Molly covers her ears. "I don't want to hear anything about that drill!", he shudders.
"Okay, okay. I'm sorry. Nothing about the procedure. But it's quick, and you'll be sedated so you'll only slightly know what's going on and you definitely won't care."
"The sedative better work."
"It will. Plus, you're a small woman", he snorts. "It should take hold of you fairly quickly."
Entering the office, Molly checks in and then sits in the waiting room with Sherlock, her leg bounding and her nerves jittery. Sherlock wraps an arm around her and pulls her close. "Hey...I love you; it'll be all right. I promise. You know I'd never let anything bad happen to you."
Molly looks up at him with doe eyes and chews on her lip, nodding softly. "I know. I'm just glad you finally got your license...legally. Or else I'd be totally fucked."
He smirks and kisses the corner of her mouth. "I had to so I could drive you home. I wasn't going to let Mycroft shove you in the back of his stretch limo, that's for sure."
Molly giggles and groans. "That would be entirely horrendous."
"Exactly."
Just then a nurse calls her name. Sherlock kisses her and squeezes her hand. "Good luck, I love you and I'll be here when you're finished."
"Thanks...see you", she mutters, shyly greeting the nurse and heading back to the room, giving him one last nervous glance before disappearing behind a wall. Sherlock sighs and wishes he could be in there to calm her, but he knows everything will be okay.
.
.
"Smrrrlmmph", Molly slurs, her face puffy and gauze in her mouth. Sherlock smiles and pats her hand as he begins to drive.
"It's all right, Molly. Just relax. You're going to feel slightly funny for a little longer because of the sedation, but it'll wear off. So will the anesthetic. Just try not to talk, ok?"
Molly looks over at him with foggy eyes and nods, laying her head back against the headrest and looking out the window, some things blurring as they drive by.
Before she knows it, they are back home and Sherlock is escorting her into the flat, arm around her waist. She has full control over herself but still feels fuzzy and numb.
"Remember what the surgeon said? You've got to take out the gauze that's there now and put a new one in for a half-hour. The if it stops bleeding you can rest for a while."
She blinks in confusion then nods, locating the small baggie the doctor had given her and going to the loo to change out her gauze. Sherlock puts her favorite blanket on the sofa then meets her outside the bathroom.
"Come, I'll help you put your pajamas on again, okay?"
"Mmmhh", she mumbles and follows him to their bedroom, clumsily replacing her clothes as she had only a couple short hours ago.
Sherlock guides her over to their bed and sits her down, putting her favorite fuzzy socks on her feet before scooping her not his arms. She automatically cuddles closer and strokes his curls lovingly.
The weather becomes drearier and begins to drizzle as Sherlock sits back on the sofa with her in his arms, wrapping her in her favorite blanket. He tells her all about a case that he's planning to work on that week.
After a half-hour is up, he assists her back to the loo and she tosses out the gauze in her mouth, whimpering with soreness. Sherlock gets her some pain medication and urges her to take it with lukewarm water and she eagerly obliges. Taking her hand, he leads her back to the sofa, where she climbs back into his lap, resting her head on his shoulder and rubbing his chest quietly.
Sherlock turns on the telly and puts on one of her favorite baking shows. He comments on a couple of the outcomes and chuckles, knowing Molly is usually very judgy and particular. When her silence follows, he strokes her hair and looks down at her, realizing she had dozed off in his lap and is fast asleep.
"I love you, my brave Molly", he murmurs, kissing her temple and rubbing her back soothingly, refusing to move until she awakens later that afternoon.
