Mash
Greg can almost hear Sherlock grumbling that the difference between the present situation and the past is inappreciable anyway. Or maybe not. Maybe his consultant will be offended at his favourite source of experimental objects for finally fighting back.
Personally, Greg is more concerned about when they slipped into a parallel dimension, where classical, brain-hungry zombies are A Thing. About what might have happened to Molly. He hasn't heard from her since. Part of him is afraid, because she's in one of the most dangerous places in London. On the other side, she has proven more than once that she has unsuspected reserves of strength and talent, and might well be safe. Heck, she dated Moriarty; for all they know, she's one of the people behind the change.
Greg didn't even know what was happening at first, and is not going to tell Sherlock (or John, who would definitely share) his first confrontatiom with the new...plague? Apocalypse? The fuck is happening anyway? The detective is smug enough as it is, he doesn't need any more validation. The half-smashed head of their murder victim was stomach-churning, even for him. The lack of brain matter splattered around was enough to make him consider calling them in. Yes, it could be as easy as the body having been moved, but that would have required some serious stealth.
Forensic had already done their job, and Greg was on the scene, considering his options, when the victim rose and tried to attack him. Greg was almost startled enough to end up as prey. His training took over, and he caught the...he was calling them zombies, because if it quacks – well, tries to bite – and slammed him against the closest wall hard enough that the rest of his head shattered. Ugh.
Another similar victim was nearby, and when he got the call from colleagues nervous about a head-crasher spree killer, the same happened again. But why would they leave forensics alone? Greg almost laughed out loud, realizing Anderson was on forensics. Of course.
Greg isn't considering the ethics of his next actions. Maybe some day, assuming the world doesn't fall apart, he'll be busy beating himself up over the people he – and Anderson – might, or even should, have saved. But all he can think about is that if these creatures are, indeed, attracted to brain, there's one person they'll hunt down. A person that keeps Britain functioning, and Greg needs to save him. That he needs him alive for his own sake, too...well, that doesn't matter.
So he walks over to Anderson, grips him by the arm, gets him in the car, and drives to Mycroft. Bless the man's taste for routine, because Greg knows where he'll be right now. (Mycroft told him, in case Greg should need to reach him at any time. About Sherlock, of course.)
It's late enough that Mycroft is at his own home, and Greg's anxious knock is finally answered by a sighing elder Holmes. "What has he done now?" he asks, then notices Anderson and visibly stiffens.
Greg tries to explain, his words jumbled, and Anderson's interruptions were not at all helpful. If Mycroft wasn't Mycroft, he wouldn't understand a thing. But then he smiles, warming Greg all over like the best stiff drink, and allows them in.
"Thank you for your thought, detective inspector, but as you see, I'm well guarded against any attack, especially by anyone slow, in every sense." The man points at two plants, bright green and huge in their pots (only fitting here because Mycroft's home is more than spacious.) "Allow me to introduce you to Audrey and Venus."
Christ almighty, he didn't know all the horror movies he'd ever watched were documentaries! Because the pretty plants move and – there are teeth shining at him. He wouldn't get close to either one without Mycroft's company. Perhaps not even with him, despite the fact he's clearly not been eaten yet. But has he? Maybe his brother and he are plant pod people, or something?
Mycroft is scribbling, and soon he hands over a slip of paper to Anderson. "If you would, I'd be grateful if you could pay a visit there."
The poor man looks doubtfully at Lestrade, who nods, before leaving.
"Where did you send him?"
"I wish I could have sent him to a research center, but I'm afraid his influence might be counterproductive more than useful. That's our least annoying politician. I'm not surprised you haven't ever heard their name."
"Why not Baker Street?" Greg can't help himself. If anything, Mycroft is protective.
"Because John is an even better shield than my dearies," he says, smiling at the plants, and damn, it's the first time Greg finds the man spooky "and that's assuming that anything gets past Mrs. Hudson. You don't know much about her past, I assume. She's... a variation on what one could consider a selkie. She decided that she didn't mind this world, after all, once she was free of her controlling husband. Still, shifting back and forth – and then not shifting for years, and having to relearn about it – is not so easy on the joints. But she's not originally a swan or seal or anything like that. I doubt that our current threat can deal with a literal cougar."
Greg is very happy there's a chair next to him, because he flops onto it before he's even realised.
"If you wish, you're welcome to stay, detective inspector."
The day before, Greg would be thrilled at the prospect, but right now? "Actually, I need to help...to try, at least..." And he doesn't think he could deal with any more casual revelations without wanting a zombie to eat his brain and get everything out of it.
"Good luck, then."
Yeah. Dealing with hungry zombies is the best option to keep his sanity.
