*
.
No matter how much she was used to the morgue working routine, tasks like that would always make Molly Hooper's heart ache a bit. The young woman lying on the autopsy table was at least 15 years younger than her, and her body was as cold as the stainless steel beneath her.
The pathologist was washing the corpse carefully to not leave any trace of blood on the pale skin and long hair that probably turned some heads as she walked. Molly sighed as she directed the hose squirt towards the strands that were slowly losing their reddish hue and revealing their natural blonde.
"Was she hit by a bus?" Sherlock Holmes had entered the room and approached silently.
"For God's sake, Sherlock!" The woman felt half-angry at her boyfriend's attitude, half-amused at his always-spontaneous way of acting with her.
"I'm sorry, love," he kissed the top of Molly's head before stepping away. "I noticed how focused you are, but I thought you'd noticed my arrival."
"No problem." She gave him an honest smile. "It's harder not to ponder on their lives with such brutal interruption."
The man leaned against the nearest countertop so as not to get in her way.
"Was it really a bus?" he asked while crossed his arms over the halves of his traditional Belstaff on his chest after noticing the large lacerations and bruises on the deceased's body.
"No," Molly turned off the hose and took away the white latex gloves. "A drunk man behind the wheel driving over the speed limit. Greg told me about it when he drove by. The doctors rescued her alive, but she arrived dead at the hospital."
"A casualty..." Sherlock said as if it were an unfortunate everyday event.
"Avoidable if people had a bit more compassion, greater respect for life," the pathologist walked past him to get a tag from the drawer. "Whoever he was, never thought they could ruin someone's dreams, taking the life of someone's love. He acted purely out of selfishness."
Molly placed the tag on the countertop next to a clipboard and copy from it the young woman's ID info.
Sherlock couldn't stop looking at his girlfriend, increasingly enchanted by the empathy she felt for people she didn't even know. With determination and practice, he learned to feel that for people he loved, but strangers he'd never even talked to were still a challenge. He would definitely never have a heart as tender as Molly's.
"Rest in peace, Susan," the woman tied the ID tag around the thumb of the young woman's left foot. "I wish I could have done more for you."
The couple exchanged a simple smile before the pathologist took the phone of the hospital's internal line off the hook and informed that the body was ready to be taken into the morgue's freezer until the family requested it for the funeral.
Molly got a white sheet from the cabinet, covered the naked woman and only then she could call it a day and leave. She and Sherlock came across the people responsible for carrying the body, dragging a stretcher with a black bag folded over it in the middle of the corridor on their way to the changing room.
A few minutes later, after leaving her lab coat hanging in the cupboard and receiving Sherlock's help to put on her light brown coat and the black and magenta striped scarf around her neck, Molly picked up her bag and the couple walked hand in hand towards the lift
"Are you hungry?" the man entwined the fingers of his left hand with those of her right one.
"A bit." She smiled and bent her head to lean against his shoulder.
"Are we going to eat at a restaurant or do you prefer a takeaway?" Sherlock stopped in front of the lift door as Molly pressed the button to call the vertical transportation.
"With you, any place is a good place," she gave him a seductive smile.
The smile that appeared on the man's face was so big that made his eyes sparkle. The high-pitched whistle announcing the lift interrupted their eye contact.
As the place was empty, as soon as the doors closed, Molly felt Sherlock's right arm passing behind her waist and lifting her a few inches off the floor as he leaned his body forward and pressed his lips to hers in a passionate kiss. Even though she enjoyed the sudden display of affection, Molly had to interrupt it.
"I've done something wrong, dear?" The man was breathless.
"There are cameras in here." Molly giggled as she fixed her hair.
Sherlock grimaced before laughing and apologising for having forgotten that detail. After a long time of repressing and trying to ignore the desire, he felt for his friend. Once they finally publicly assumed their romantic relationship, he wanted to enjoy every second to make up for the time they had lost.
But there were guidelines in her work that he needed to respect. Even though he was certain that he could get Molly's job back if they fired her, the man understood that it would be a stress that his beloved pathologist would not deserve to go through.
"I missed you too" the woman wrapped him with both arms and rested her head on his chest.
The man raised his hand and was sliding his fingers through Molly's hair when the lift suddenly bumped and stopped moving, remaining in total darkness.
"Oh, come on!" complained Sherlock with an angry tone in his voice.
"It was probably just a power surge," Molly assured him. "If it doesn't come back soon, the generators will take over." she raised her head, but the darkness was too thick to see his face. "Aren't we supposed to have emergency lights in here?"
"Indeed" the man felt intrigued while taking the mobile phone from his pocket and enlightening both of them with the bright of the screen. "But you know what?" He smiled before blocking it and putting the device away. "No light, no cameras."
Understanding and agreeing with her boyfriend's suggestion, Molly left the bag she carried over her shoulder on the floor and threw her arms around his neck while Sherlock, once again, leaned his body forward and lifted her by the waist with one arm. His free hand stroked her hair as they both felt like two teenagers experiencing their first love, passionate kissing inside the dark place.
Sherlock let out a groan when Molly held the curls of his hair on the base of his neck, causing her to giggle in satisfaction at the reaction she had provoked. When the two of them first started dating, she was a little unsure if she could arouse desire in him, since Sherlock had spent so many years blocking out his feelings, but with just a few kisses, Molly realised it was not only possible, but very easy.
"Hooper," he said jokingly. "You are approaching a point of no return and I strongly believe you don't want to do this inside a lift in your workplace."
Instead of answering, she just laughed, staring at his playful smile, realising that the light had returned, though not in a full capacity. Molly caressed Sherlock's face, receiving a kiss on her palm as she passed it close to his lips and then bent down to pick up her bag and prepare to get out of there.
Even saying no word, they both had in mind the same idea that the power outage was because of a serious fault in the system and so that dim light did not surprise them. They had a common thought that hospital's generators, not the city's electrical distribution network, were providing the power.
When the lift doors opened, the smiles of the couple holding hands, who were already making plans for later, simply disappeared. There wasn't a slightest chance of that scenario be a consequence of the use of energy provided by generators. Just like inside the lift, the corridor was also dimly lit, but the most disturbing thing was the complete silence.
Even a hospital has its characteristic sounds and at the moment Molly and Sherlock were having the feeling that they had gone deaf. The woman stared at her boyfriend and, although the man tried to give the idea that he was calm, he was as much in shock as she, seeing something that his brain had difficulty explaining.
"Where is everyone?" asked Molly's soft voice, breaking the dead silence.
"I don't know, my love," he pulled her closer and passing his left arm over her shoulders.
The couple had no alternative but to leave the false security of the lift and search for answers about what was happening. Perhaps a fire, forcing everyone to leave the building; they shared the idea. But if that was the case, there would be firemen rescuing anyone who had stayed behind.
When Sherlock noticed that the temperature seemed to decrease a little while they walked, because of his little pathologist's breath condensing in front of her face, he opened the side of his Belstaff to welcome Molly into it, closer to his own body. Neither of them wanted to admit it, but feeling an irrational fear overwhelming them.
"Series," Sherlock surprised Molly by breaking the silence. "We've been watching a lot of them lately with Audrey and John, and it's influencing our perception. There's a logical explanation for what's happening and we're going to find out!" He felt confident about what he was saying.
"I wouldn't be so sure," the woman's voice hesitated, and she suddenly stopped walking.
The man followed her eyes to a point further along the corridor where a pale, naked, bruised woman faced them, blocking the way. The young woman seemed to talk, but the couple could not understand or even listen, whether it was fear or the fact that she was dead and in a distinct reality from theirs.
Molly could hear Sherlock's teeth chattering against each other as he struggled not to panic. She knew how much her boyfriend hated things he couldn't explain, and the existence of the supernatural was always going to be a mystery to someone with such a sceptical view of everything.
"It's the only way out of the building," the woman whispered. "Unless we go all the way back."
Gathering all their courage, Molly and Sherlock intertwined their fingers and walked towards the spectre that showed no sign of moving. Each step forward gave a sense that the phantom would not be a barrier to their passage. As they approached, however, a piece of information made Molly's heart skip a beat.
"Sherlock," she murmured, unable to hold back the tears that suddenly formed a path over her cheeks. "It's her."
The lack of colour in the man's face clarified he had recognised the injured body standing in front of him too. Their first meeting was some minutes before, even if unusually. He knew it was the deceased woman the pathologist was cleaning up to be handed over to her family.
"
" thought Sherlock almost as quickly as he dismissed that hypothesis without even bothering to verbalise. Molly wouldn't be capable of such a blunder.
"Susan?" said the woman when they got close enough to be listening.
The ghostly creature emitted a loud wail and stretched its arms forward before projecting itself into Molly's direction. The blow struck her in the middle of her chest, throwing her backwards and causing her to lose contact with her boyfriend.
With his heart beating so fast that made him felt like it would come out of his mouth, Sherlock looked around trying to think of what to do and willing to embrace any idea, when he saw a cane lying on the floor.
Remembering something about metal and supernatural creatures, he picked up the object and attacked the woman who was keeping Molly to the floor and was squeezing her neck with fingers that were white and discoloured from the lack of circulating blood. To his astonishment, that idea worked out, and the spectre vanished into thin air.
"Molly!" The man dropped the cane and bent down beside his girlfriend, who was coughing because of the attack.
"I'm fine..." She placed her hand on Sherlock's right thigh as she received his help to get up. "Let's get the hell out of here."
In agreement with her, but not convinced that it was over, the man picked up the cane from the ground to keep as a safeguard. The couple remained on silence until they saw the main door of the hospital and almost ran to get out of the building.
Even in the dark, the street seems to be more appealing than the hostile environment they were in. However, just like inside, everything was immersed in the deepest silence and besides the darkness of the night, a mist covered the pavement, wet from the rain that seemed to have stopped minutes before.
"What if the run over wasn't accidental?" Molly couldn't stop thinking about the woman.
The attack scared her, but she still felt sorry for the way Susan had died.
"I've been thinking the same thing." Sherlock had his left arm over his girlfriend's shoulders while he carried the cane over his right one like a warrior who had just emerged victorious from battle.
"Perhaps she would like you to investigate?" She looked up to face him.
"That makes me more famous than I imagined," the detective chuckle, glad that his beloved seemed really well since her voice remained in its natural and sweet tone. "And I thought my fame was only international."
Molly giggle at the comment before continuing to speak.
"Don't you think it's too empty and silent?"
"One unexplained thing at a time, sweetheart."
That statement made the woman giggle again.
"Where did you get the idea to attack her with the cane?" she asked.
"That Winchester brothers' series we watched. I remembered them making ghosts disappear by hitting them with iron bars."
"And how were you sure the metal of 
 would work?"
"That part was a lucky guess," he admitted while frowning. "I'm glad it did."
The couple smiles at each other, practically surrendered to the strange phenomena of that night.
"Where are we going?"
"Since you also think she wants me to investigate her accident, I thought I'd talk to Greg about what happened."
"Call him, then maybe we can find out why the streets are so empty." Molly stated the last part with little certainty if she should, but once said the words cannot be 'unsaid'.
"There's no signal," Sherlock felt disappointed as he put his mobile phone away.
"Mine is the same," said the woman after checking.
Neither of them wanted to add out loud that detail to the list of strange things that were happening. Even with a more open mind to things beyond scientific understanding, a ghost had attacked her, something Molly never expected to experiment.
The morgue had the most peculiar legends of the entire hospital, but she believed none of them until that moment. The episode would surely make her review her concepts.
Sherlock kept his steps firm as he tried, in vain, to ignore the strange reality surrounding them. There must be a logical explanation and he could figure out what was going on. Maybe the closeness of Halloween had awakened in his friends the desire to play a trick on both of them.
That seemed quite possible; he himself, along with John, had already done something similar to Mycroft, however, that the spectre had attacked his girlfriend made that hypothesis impossible. No one he knew would go that far with a joke.
"Is it just me, or is this mist getting thicker?" asked Molly.
"It's not only a feeling," Sherlock slowed his pace, unable to see more than an inch in front of his nose.
Both shivering when they stood face to face and hugged each other, overcome with a feeling of abandonment by not being able to explain with the trustworthy scientific knowledge what was happening.
The couple shared the same level of anxiety, trying to imagine how they would defend themselves from an attack the moment the mist dissipated with no threatening changes. Except for a strange additional fact to add to the list of what they witnessed that night.
"Molly," Sherlock whispered, not believing his own eyes.
The woman turned in the direction he showed with a pale face and open mouth and stood with an expression mirroring his. The three-sided prism and triangular bases with the silver letters identifying the facade of New Scotland Yard were only a few feet away.
The building was normal as usual, but the fact was that they shouldn't be there yet. They both knew the way by heart and were fully aware that they couldn't have arrived already.
"Do you think we should step inside?" asked Molly.
"I don't know if this mist will let us go anywhere else," Sherlock was thirsty for something he could understand.
Inside that building, real or not, there were probably files to analyse, and that was comfortable enough for him to risk it. In addition, besides Sherlock suspecting that they were not free to go wherever they wanted, if it was an investigation Susan wanted, he would give it to her.
The idea of salting and burning Susan's corpse, as he had seen the Winchester brothers do a few times to get rid of ghosts, had occurred to him after the use of the cane seemed to have worked, but he would never suggest it. Molly would rightly object and he would be against it himself if he needed to have an opinion on the matter.
As they entered the building, the couple had to use the flashlight on their mobile phones to see where they were going, because the darkness was total. With each step through the empty corridors, Sherlock and Molly increased the strength with which they squeezed each other's hand, bringing a little peace to their hearts despite all the evil things that surrounded them.
That the mist from outside was apparently following them and being consciously ignored by both to remain cool. It was uncomfortable, although it appeared to be harmless.
"Would you mind help me with the search, darling?" asked Sherlock when they finally arrived at Greg Lestrade's office.
It was no surprise to find that the officer wasn't present. By that time, they had given up hope of finding anyone else there. Molly complied with her boyfriend's request and opened the folders spread out on the table with him.
"I found it!" she said and received a grateful smile from Sherlock.
As the man settled on the detective inspector's chair and read the information about the accident, the woman focused on the photos of the scene and the body, hoping that there was some clue to what was going on.
Just as Greg informed, the case appeared to be a simple run over that dismisses further investigation. They identified the drunk driver and arrested him at the scene; the victim was with her ID and they informed the family. Sherlock couldn't see anything worthy of his attention and was about to tell Molly then when he noticed her staring at a photo.
"Anything worthy of attention, love?" The man stood behind her to see what the woman was observing so carefully.
"All of Susan's belongings are inside an envelope in the morgue, except for this golden necklace with a heart pendant."
"Could it have fallen on the way or while the doctors were providing relief?" Sherlock took the magnifying glass from his pocket to get a closer look at it and the woman handed him the photo.
"Yes," Molly agreed. "But what if the reason she appeared to me was because the necklace fell off while I was washing her body?"
Sherlock sighed, exhausted by it all, and left the photo with the magnifying glass on the table. The sensation was like that of his overdose nightmares, but it had been years since he had come close to any of the substances he had once used. As much as he tried to rationalise what was happening, 
 made sense. 
 of that could be real.
"If someone told me, I don't know if I would believe it, honey," Molly made it clear how much she also considering that night a shared hallucination. "But the fact is that now we have a loose end in the story. We have a golden necklace to find."
The two looked at each other for a few seconds and smile before panic took over once again. Suddenly, a path opened in the mist that covered the floor without their awareness and Molly felt something grabbing one end of the scarf wrapped around her neck and dragging her to the corridor before Sherlock could hold her back.
The desperate man ran after her, but something thrown him in the opposite direction, falling dazed as his body slammed against the glass of the walls surrounding Greg's office, causing him to lose the cane that had previously served as a weapon.
As she couldn't fight what was holding her back, Molly decided to get rid of the scarf, but even that wasn't an easy task with her feet suspended a few inches off the ground by the chaotic energy that didn't seem to know what to do with her. To her relief, Sherlock pulled himself together and stand to help her finally get rid of the suffocating piece of knitting.
Molly was almost unconscious when her boyfriend sat on the floor beside her and cradled her on his chest, gently massaging her neck to ease the pain caused by the compression, fearing the consequences of that second and more aggressive attack.
The woman tried to smile as she raised her right arm to touch Sherlock's face, which had a bleeding spot on the left side of his forehead, caused by the collision of his head against the glass. There was no longer that discomfort because of the nonsense situation they were experiencing. The only feeling left was pure fear.
Concentrating on taking care of Molly, Sherlock did not notice the change in the surrounding environment. Not only her injuries had disappeared, but they were back inside the well-known lift which suddenly started to move. The couple had astonished expression on their faces while, leaning on each other, they stood.
Molly touched the spot on her boyfriend's forehead where she was sure she had seen a minor wound, but it was now completely unmarked. Then, she touched her own neck feeling, besides the lack of the scarf she was wearing, the absence of the pain caused by the pressure from minutes before.
Sherlock looked around and found the knitting item lying on the ground a few inches away from him. He reached for the object and offered it to his girlfriend, who preferred to keep it inside her purse rather than wrap it around her neck, still too shaken by the recent events.
The lift door opened, revealing the hospital corridor as usual. Busy, brightly lit and with the sound of footsteps of nurses and doctors going to their patients, or pushing stretchers and wheelchairs. They were definitely back to the reality they were used to.
Sherlock took a step towards the door, but Molly stopped him by passing her arm in front of his body as she pressed the button on the panel that would take them back to the morgue.
"Are you sure?" he immediately understood her intention.
"I need to," she was resolute in her decision.
The man intertwined the fingers of his left hand with those of her right hand and remained silent as they travelled back to where they had met for the first time that night; — the room where she cleaned up Susan's corpse after her tragic death.
Out of use, the place was empty and dark and they both shared the fear that the lights would not work, but Molly flicked the switch, which operated as usual.
"It might not be here, but if it is, I need to find it!" She said before leaving her bag on a table and knelt down to look for the necklace.
"I'll help you," said Sherlock.
Soon, the detective realised that there was only one place in that very well cleaned room where the object could be. And it wasn't on the floor, or under the furniture, as Molly had suspected.
The man stooped down near the autopsy table, where Molly washed up the corpse, and spotted the siphoned pipe with a bottle trap. Standing again, he removed his Belstaff and suit jacket, rolled up his shirt sleeves and started working.
"Damn it!" cursed Sherlock as the cup-shaped vessel came loose and the rest of the water mixed with blood inside it fell to the floor.
Molly turned her head towards him, and only then noticed what her boyfriend was doing. She opened a drawer from which she took out a pair of gloves to put on before picking up the object. They both stood apprehensively as she turned its contents inside the sink with the drain covered. Amidst the dark liquid emerged the golden necklace with the heart pendant.
The pathologist immediately felt responsible for everything that was happening. If she had been more careful, that angry spirit wouldn't have come after them. Even if the events had apparently only happened in their minds, it was her fault.
"
 doesn't even make sense," Sherlock interrupted Molly's thoughts as she stared at the golden object in her hand over her white latex glove. "Whatever happened, it didn't happen. None of it was real."
"I said I wish I could have done more for her," the pathologist remarked with a serene smile on her face, almost believing that this was the trigger for the little supernatural adventure.
"And you did, my love." Sherlock placed a kiss on top of Molly's head. "Do you have a fabric I can use to clean up the mess?" The man pointed to the dark puddle under the stainless steel table.
She looked in the direction he was pointing and showed where Sherlock would find the cleaning supplies. While he worked, Molly washed the necklace and left it over a paper towel to dry before helping her boyfriend put everything back the way it was so they could leave.
With the jewellery already dry, the pathologist took a small envelope of thick brown paper where she stored it before stapling the opening and write the name of the deceased to whom the object belonged.
She and Sherlock, already wearing his Belstaff and suit jackets again, left the room and went to meet Mike Stamford, who was still on duty, to explain the occurrence and hand over the envelope to his care before leaving the hospital.
"I'm grateful that you didn't tell Mike the details of our adventure," the man and his girlfriend left the place hand in hand.
Darkness had already fallen over London, but it was nowhere near as threatening as the one they had both experienced. There were people on the street, and no ghostly mist hid the glow of the wet pavement reflecting the lights of lampposts and shop windows.
"I think it's best to keep this just between us," Molly giggle. "Detective also famous in the supernatural realm."
Sherlock laughed loudly at the memory and pulled the woman closer by slipping his left arm over her shoulders.
"Are you still hungry?" he asked.
"Now that you reminded me, I am," Molly smiled at him, feeling her 'previously ignored' appetite returning.
"I think me too," Sherlock revealed, also with a smile on his face.
The couple shared a quick kiss before walking down the street, entirely happy and relieved that they had come out of the adventure relatively unharmed and that everything was back to normal.
The pathologist could never again simply ignore the legends spread by hospital staff about her workplace, but that didn't disturb her. She was afraid of nothing, with Sherlock Holmes at her side.
The detective still thought about what he had witnessed, refusing to surrender and accept that there was no logical explanation for the episode, but he wouldn't waste much time on it. He feels perfectly comfortable dealing with what escapes his comprehension with Molly Hooper at his side.
: If any X-Files fan remembered the episode "How the Ghosts Stole Christmas", I want to say that by the time I realized Molly and Sherlock were in a similar situation as Scully and Mulder, the story was pretty much over. I think that what we consume will always reflect on our lives, especially when we write. The references to the "Supernatural" series, on the other hand, were conscious and on purpose, as I am re-watching the series.
This oneshot is part of the universe I created for my Sherlock fanfics, although it is practically an alternate reality because of the supernatural element. If anyone is curious to know who Audrey is, come to read my fanfic: 
 (It is in Portuguese, but maybe one day I will write something about Audrey in English too).
Who liked this little supernatural adventure? Do you think it really happened, or it was just Molly and Sherlock's imagination? There is no right answer. I couldn't decide if it was real or illusion. I love playing with all possibilities.
