Sherlock Holmes was running. He was running as fast as he could, but it wasn't fast enough.
He was in Serbia, trying to dismantle the last of Moriarty's network, but he was caught. His cover was compromised and the soldiers started tracking him down, following his every move, chasing him.
Sherlock didn't know how long he was running, or where he was going. The only things he did know were that he was hungry, cold, and he was tired. He didn't know how much longer he could run for.
His hair was long, his clothes were way too big, and he had barely slept or eaten in a week. It was dark out and he could only see what was in front of him, hardly even that. He heard other men running behind him. He heard a helicopter overhead. What he didn't see were the people in front of him.
All of a sudden, as if snapping back to reality, Sherlock heard shots being fired, people yelling, tracker dogs barking. Then he was surrounded by three men, their guns pointed at him, so he surrendered. He fell onto his knees, his head bowed, and he surrendered.
All he remembers was being grabbed by the arms. That was when he lost consciousness.
Sherlock groaned. His head hurt. He was cold. 
he thought. 
When he opened his eyes, he saw he was in an old room, with a door in front of him. There were two chains, one on each side of the room, which were each clasped tightly to one of his arms, causing him to hang from them slightly. He could hear, faintly, a sound of dripping water, probably from one of the many broken pipes in the room. The were cement and stone walls, some with moss growing on them. He couldn't see what was behind him, but he assumed there was at least a window because, along with the lamp of artificial light above him, there was a small square of natural light shining into the room.
A man walked into the room. Sherlock looked up when he heard the door open. There was also a man sitting on a chair in the corner, his feet propped up on a stool, as if he was relaxing.
Sherlock cut off his own thoughts. 
 He was about to say something in Serbian, but the man who just walked in got to him first. Sherlock was surprised when there was a sudden pain in his stomach. His breath quickly left him. The man had punched him. Hard. He groaned. 
Sherlock braced himself as the man lunged at him again, and again, and again. The chains on his arms were making it impossible to move away. He was having a hard time blocking out the pain, like he usually did in these situations. 
He felt himself drooling. It tasted like blood. He wanted to cry out, to yell, to let tears fall down his face, but he would 
give his torturer that kind of satisfaction. Besides, he was used to it. Sherlock was waiting for another punch, but instead the man spoke.
"You broke in here for a reason," he heard the man who was punching him say in Serbian. "Just tell us why and you can sleep." As the man said this, he walked into the corner to grab a pipe that had broken off its hinges entirely. As he did this, Sherlock got a glimpse of the man out of the corner of his eye. Everything about the man came flooding into his mind. 
"Remember sleep," the man questioned again. Sherlock did in fact remember sleep. At this statement, he was overcome with even more tiredness. The only thing he wanted at this moment was for the sweet relief of sleep to make the pain go away. Oh, how he longed to sleep, but he saw his way out of this situation and, before the man was about to hit him with the pipe, Sherlock spoke. It came out as more of a hoarse whisper, as his voice was rarely used, but the man heard it nonetheless.
"What," the torturer exclaimed, grabbed Sherlock's hair, and lifted his head, putting his ear to Sherlock's face to hear him better. He winced. 
The man in the corner spoke, also in Serbian, "Well? What did he say?" 
Sherlock thought to himself.
"He said that I used to work in the navy where I had an unhappy love affair. That the electricity isn't working in my bathroom and that my wife is sleeping with our next door neighbor. The coffin maker! And if I go home now I'll catch them at it! I knew it! I knew there was something going on!" With that, as Sherlock expected, the man made a mad dash towards the door.
He was free. He could sleep. He could find a way out of these bloody chains! Except, he forgot about the man sitting in the corner.
"So my friend," the other man exclaimed in Serbian, jarring Sherlock out of his thoughts. "Now it is just you and me. You have no idea the trouble it took to find you."
As the man got closer, Sherlock waited to be questioned, or beaten, but instead the man grabbed his hair and whispered in his ear. To Sherlock's surprise, he spoke to him in English.
"Now, listen to me," the man whispered, so he wouldn't be heard by other guards. Sherlock's was almost unable to stop himself from yelling in surprise. "There's an underground terrorist network active in London and a massive attack is imminent. Sorry, but the holiday is over, brother dear." 
is 
 "Back to Baker Street, Sherlock Holmes."
Despite everything, despite being cold, being more tired or hungry than he has ever been in his life, being covered in gashes and bruises, and being in pain all over, Sherlock Holmes smiled for what seemed like the first time in two years.
Sherlock was freed from the chains by Mycroft, and he practically collapsed onto the floor, not having the strength to sit, much less stand, up.
"Sherlock, oh gosh, brother mine, are you okay," Mycroft exclaimed, rushing over to him and holding him up. He only got a groan in response.
"Sherlock, talk to me," Mycroft demanded. He had underestimated the extent of Sherlock's injuries. Still nothing.
"Sherlock, hey, hey, talk to me. Open your eyes, now. Open your eyes." Mycroft frantically demanded in a voice that no one, not even Sherlock, could disobey.
"Get... off... of me," Sherlock weakly hissed through gritted teeth, blinking his eyes open. Mycroft had put his hand directly on one of the large cuts on Sherlock's back. Mycroft realized this with a start and removed his hand, leaving a trace of blood on it. "We have to get out of here."
"Yes, I realize that," Mycroft whispered to his brother, who was still being supported by one of Mycroft's arm. He could barely stand up straight, he was shivering, and he was clutching his stomach with a pained expression. "Luckly, I am one step ahead of you on that aspect. Here, take this." Mycroft handed Sherlock the jacket he was wearing as part of his disguise. Sherlock eagerly put it on and practically melted into its warmth.
Both Holmes brothers turned their heads upward as they heard a helicopter approaching. Sherlock widened his eyes and tried to stand up, only to fall back down again.
"Easy now, brother. It is okay. I ordered a helicopter to come get us. They are tracking my phone. I must applaud their timing."
"They are going to get us caught," Sherlock reasoned.
"That is why we have to be quick about it." Mycroft pulled his brother up and put his arm over his shoulders. "And when did you start to become a pessimist, brother mine?" Mycroft, although it being out of character for him, was trying to lighten the mood, but he only received a faint grimace from his younger brother. Mycroft then started walking to the door in the back (one that Sherlock was facing away from), practically carrying his younger brother. He shoved open the door and lunged into the already open helicopter. Anthea, his personal assistant for many years, shut the door rapidly, jumped into the passenger seat, and the pilot took off. As they were flying away, Mycroft heard gunshots that they narrowly avoided. He only felt relieved and safe once they were well past the perimeter of the makeshift prision. Then he turned his attention towards the youngest Holmes brother.
Sherlock had his head pressed against the cold glass of the window and was groaning. The icy feeling of the glass was allowing him to focus on something other than the pain he felt, although it wasn't working as well as he had hoped.
"Are you okay," Mycroft asked him.
"Hmm," was all Sherlock said in return.
"Sherlock, answer me. How hurt are you? Where are your injuries?"
"I'm fine," Sherlock answered weakly.
"Sherlock Holmes, you can try to lie to me, but I am looking right at you, and you are anything but fine."
"Fine. Okay. I hurt everywhere. There. You have your information. Happy?"
Mycroft, ignoring the snappy remark from Sherlock, looked out the window and at the passing trees, in what seemed to be the early morning light. He was 
from happy. There was this feeling in the pit of his stomach that he wasn't used to and had only felt a few times before, mainly during the day of Sherlock's jump. There was a name for this feeling. Regret.
It was rare for Mycroft to regret something, but when he did, it was usually about his brother. He regretted putting Sherlock in this situation (as much as Sherlock insisted that it be done). He regretted leaving Sherlock there for so long without help or backup. Most of all, he regretted Moriarty, his network, and everything that he had done, especially to Sherlock. Finally, however, Mycroft recovered his reason and rationale. And he welcomed it.
"You must be starving," he stated suddenly, turning towards his brother. "Anthea do you have anything for him to eat," Mycroft questioned her.
As always, his assistant was prepared. "Granola bars, crisps, candy, pop, and water. Couldn't bring any real food, as we got ready in a hurry."
"Thank you this is perfect," Mycroft smiled. "Sherlock, you need to eat, what do you want?" Sherlock just reached out and grabbed whatever Anthea was holding out, wincing as he extended his arm. He wolfed it down, then asked for a granola bar, which he ate just as fast. He downed two bottles of water and a can of pop.
Sherlock, although knowing eating quickly like this was not suggested and could lead to messy consequences, he did it anyway, welcoming the taste of the ample supply food that he had been lacking for a long time. Earlier, he would have dismissed food as a distraction, but now he has never been more grateful.
Mycroft looked at his brother sadly as he was eating. When he was done, Sherlock looked at him. "You were staring at me, what is it?"
"Nothing, brother dear. I'm just sorry. Sorry you had to go through all that."
Sherlock looked surprised at this rare show of emotion, but simply said, "Had to be done." He rested his head against the back of his seat and closed his eyes. After a few minutes, he muttered what they were all thinking. "Missed you too." He fell asleep.
Mycroft smiled at his sleeping brother, glad he was able to keep him safe once again. He put his arm around Sherlock and leaned him onto his lap to make him more comfortable, watching the youngest Holmes's features relax at what was probably the first peaceful slumber he has had in a while. Then Mycroft fell asleep himself, awating their return to London.
Sherlock Holmes stood, tucking in his button-up shirt.
"I need you to give this matter your full attention, Sherlock, is that quite clear?" Sherlock listened to Mycroft rambling on and on about some national importance stuff, as he always does, their earlier sentiment from a few days prior already gone unspoken, but still remembered fondly.
Despite Sherlock trying to be annoyed, he secretly missed his brother. And he got a case out of this. 
, Sherlock wondered. He was already groomed, well rested (he allowed himself to sleep and did so for the entirety of two whole days), and most of his injuries were in the process of healing (though they still hurt plenty).
"What do you think of this shirt," Sherlock said on purpose, trying to aggravate his brother.
"Sherlock!" Mycroft snapped at him.
"I will find your underground terror cell, Mycroft. Just put me back in London. I need to get to know the place again, breathe it in. Feel every quiver of its beating heart," Sherlock said genuinely. 
Though he would never, in fact, admit this out loud, to anyone.
he thought as she walked in. 
"One of our men died getting this information," she stated. "All the chatter, all the traffic concurs, there's going to be a terrorist strike on London, a big one."
Sherlock partially tuned her out, having already heard all this from Mycroft. Twice. He didn't really care how big or small it was going to be, he just needed to get back to his life first. He wasn't usually a sentimental person, okay he wasn't ever a sentimental person, but there was something he needed to know.
"What about John Watson."
"John?" Mycroft questioned with surprise.
"Hmm. Have you seen him?" He tried to ask this casually, but he genuinely missed John. He missed his life. He missed being Sherlock Holmes the consulting detective, solving crimes with his friend and partner, John Watson.
"Oh yes, we meet up every Friday for fish and chips."
"I've kept a weather eye on him, of course. We haven't been in touch at all, to prepare him," Mycroft answers truthfully, handing his younger brother a file.
Sherlock thinks. 
He opens the file, which includes a recent picture of John with a moustache. 
 "No," he says aloud. "Well, we'll have to get rid of that. He looks ancient. I can't be seen wandering around with an old man."
After putting on his suit jacket, Sherlock stated, "I think I'll surprise John. He'll be delighted."
Mycroft stated his disagreement, but Sherlock ignored him.
"Hmm, pop into Baker Street, who knows jump out of a cake."
"Baker Street," Mycroft questioned. "He isn't there anymore."
Sherlock froze and looked at Mycroft with shock. 
"Why would he be," the eldest Holmes continued. "Its been two years. He's got on with his life."
"What life? I've been away. Where's he going to be tonight?"
"How would I know," Mycroft answered.
"You always know."
"He has a dinner reservation in the Marylebone Road. Nice little spot. They have a few bottles of the...".
Sherlock turned away and stopped listening. He already knew what Mycroft was going to say anyways. He rubbed his hand on his chin and thought. 
that 
Realization hit him- 
"I think maybe I'll just drop by," Sherlock explained, more to himself than to his brother.
"You know, it is just possible you won't be welcome."
"No it isn't," Sherlock dismissed the thought with a scoff. "Now, where is it."
"Where is what," Mycroft asked, knowing exactly what Sherlock was talking about.
"You know what."
Anthea was heard walking into the room once more, with something in her hands. 
Sherlock grinned as Anthea helped him put on the Belstaff. He put all his worries aside. He was back. He was going to be Sherlock Holmes again.
"Welcome back, Mr. Holmes," she stated.
"Thank you," he replied. Then he turned to Mycroft.
"Blood."
