Hello, hello !
After years of being a die-hard Sherlock fan, I finally decided to contribute to this fandom with the translation of this awesome fic written by Adalas, which focuses on the relationship between the two Holmes brothers, from Mycroft's POV (I deplore the lack of this kind of fic, there is so much potential to it !).
While translating this fic, I realized that translation from French to English is incredibly more difficult than from English to French, so I apologize for any weird turns of phrase or "translation mistakes".
Enjoy !
(This fic goes from Sherlock's birth to the ending of season 3).
He is 7 years old when he goes to the maternity ward with his father. He walks through the white corridors illuminated by the white fluorescent lights. The soles of his shoes hit the old tiles. He knows that it is perfectly irrational but he feels nervous and tries to hide it by putting his fists in his pockets and putting on an emotionless face. His father pushes the door after having gently knocked on the panel. He enters and heads for the bed where his wife rests. Mrs Holmes has drawn features but she looks relaxed.
Mycroft looks away, embarrassed, when his father leans towards the bed to kiss his wife.
The young boy's gaze is drawn to the crib where lies a small, chubby and white body, neatly covered. Curious, he comes closer and sees the hospital bracelet that displays his little brother's name on his tiny wrist. The angle doesn't enable him to read the complete name but he still manages to make out the name : "Sherlock Holmes".
Suddenly, the baby's eyes open, revealing icy irises that gaze into his eyes. These young eyes are so clear, so bright…
Mycroft starts to hope : he hopes that Sherlock will be as brilliant as him. He hopes to finally have someone with whom he could share the burden of a tremendous intelligence.
Sherlock's hand tries to reach him but Mycroft doesn't dare to touch it : his little brother seems so frail…
oOo oOo oOo
He is 12 and Sherlock, 5.
Mycroft is proud of his little brother's intellectual abilities, even though he finds them to be slightly below his own. For that matter, he doesn't go without telling him, entertained by Sherlock's outraged eyes. But Mycroft knows that his digs are as many stimulations for his brother which push him to surpass himself. So he teases Sherlock to toughen him up because he knows just how "normal" children can be cruel and he is perfectly aware that Sherlock is a much more sensitive boy than he is. Mycroft knows everything about his younger's brother need to be accepted, so he teaches him ).how to defend himself without Sherlock realizing.
oOo oOo oOo
He is 15 and Sherlock, 8.
Mycroft feels useless in the waiting room of RedBeard's veterinarian's clinic. He stares at the posters that praise the results of anti-fleas treatment without really seeing them. RedBeard is old and sick. He cannot be cured and the Holmes family refuses to see him suffer.
He is going to be put down.
Sherlock has moved heaven and earth to stay with his dog, his fluting voice resonating between the four walls with force and persuasion. So much that the veterinarian has bowed to his demand.
Mycroft has never really understood the boundless love that Sherlock bore to this animal. Maybe because the dog didn't reject him ? Whatever it is, he silently thanks RedBeard for having brought Sherlock many moments of happiness and carefreeness.
The door opens and Sherlock gets out to sit on the chair next to his. He sees the red eyes and nose of his little brother. He also sees his chest twitch and his lips tremble.
He feels his heart squeeze painfully in his chest and his eyes sting him. Sherlock's grief is terrible because it is the grief of an adult who has lost a loved one and who realizes that death is inevitable and above all that it is a path impossible to turn back on.
Mycroft tilts his head towards his mother who is watching them silently. Her eyes unusually shiny, she mimes an embrace and then gestures in the direction of Sherlock, who seems more unhappy than ever, sitting on one of those uncomfortable plastic chairs.
Mycroft doesn't like shows of affection and neither does Sherlock. The only ones that his younger brother accepts are RedBeard's welcoming licks.
But RedBeard is no more.
Inhaling deeply, Mycroft circles with his arms Sherlock's thin body and draws him awkwardly to his torso. He doesn't know what to do when Sherlock's hands start gripping his shirt and his head, covered in dark curls, sinks in the crook of his neck.
He feels his heart beat painfully between his ribs when he hears Sherlock's muffled sobs against him.
He has always felt more or less protective of his little brother but, right now, the protective flame that burns in him is stronger than it has ever been. He tightens his arms around his brother who whispers between two sobs :
"You were right : growing attached is not an advantage !"
When he hears these words, he strokes the dark curls but doesn't say anything. Not because he has nothing to say but because words are useless.
oOo oOo oOo
He is 24 and Sherlock, 17.
Mycroft has found his place within the government, working his way up in the shadows, making himself essential to the ministries' good operation. But this superb professional achievement brings him no joy.
His brother's condition worries him.
Sherlock has become a teenager with a sombre personality. Withdrawn, stuck in a life that bores enormously. He is more and more drawn to the drugs and the danger which rule life in the capital's dodgy area. "Everything rather than boredom" seems to have become his new way of life.
Mycroft has a bad feeling but he doesn't step in because he knows just too well that Sherlock will turn a deaf ear and also because he will not always be present : it is time for his brother to take himself in hand.
oOo oOo oOo
He is 30 and Sherlock, 23.
The nagging beep of the machines is giving him a migraine. The hard plastic of the chair on which he is seated hurt his behind. This discomfort brings him a few years back : in the waiting room of a veterinarian's clinic…
But, right now, it's not about RedBeard, it's about Sherlock.
Mycroft pinches his lips until they turn white. His intuition was not misleading him, he should have listened to it even though it's not in his habit to be this irrational…
Sherlock's fascination for danger, for shady people, his auto-destruction that he doesn't seem to care much for, his quest to counter boredom and the disastrous consequences that it resulted in…all of this, he had sensed it but hadn't done nothing about it. Why ?
Because he had refused to see how much Sherlock's condition had worsened ?
No, he was perfectly aware of Sherlock's activities. In the same way that he was aware of his younger brother's hostility towards him. Mycroft knew that Sherlock found him to be too stifling and overprotective so he had cut him some slack…and this is where it led them.
He turns his head and observes his brother's figure who lies, still, on a white hospital bed which is vaguely brightened up by a light green blanket.
He clenches his teeth when his pupils focus on the myriad of red dots that stud Sherlock's translucent forearms, their number massively concentrated near the crook of his arm. The web of veins are noticeable on the almost transparent skin.
His younger brother looks like a ghost. A ghost who is breathing, of course, but a ghost still.
The heart rate monitor's beeps are slow but steady, a sign that Sherlock is deeply asleep and in the clear : he just needs rest. Mycroft takes advantage of the opportunity to run his hand through his little brother's hair, curling the strands around his fingers.
He thinks about the fact that it was a close call, a very close one even. Just a few more minutes and he would have been burying a coffin.
Sherlock owes his life to some DI Lestrade who had hurried to call the emergency services when he had found him, laying on the sidewalk of an alley as he was finishing his shift. It's not in Mycroft's habits to thank anybody at all, but Lestrade does deserve a "thank you".
Gently sliding the dark curls around his fingers, Mycroft closes his eyes and sees, again, Anthea's unusually pale when she had told him about Sherlock's overdose. For the first time of his life, he had felt nauseous and, he has to admit it : terrified. His carefully hidden terror behind the indifferent mask but nonetheless present. He clearly remembers leaving his office hastily and going directly to the hospital, his pulse beating unusually fast …
Mycroft is abruptly brought back to the present by a warm but hesitant hand placed on his knee, which brushes against the bed.
Lost in his thoughts, he hadn't realised that Sherlock had woken up and the acceleration of the machines' beeps. He pulls back his hand from the brown hair hastily.
He looks at Sherlock and bores his eyes in the grey irises that watch him with a strange mix of surprise and something that looks like guilt.
With this uncertain expression on his face, he looks eight years younger.
Mycroft begins to smile and lets his relief show through his eyes. To hell with indifferent and impassive appearance, he will have time to think about it later.
"Hello little brother", he murmurs.
He feels the hand squeeze his knee as an answer while Sherlock closes his eyes and gets back to sleep.
Mycroft knows that it is not necessary to stay by his little brother's side and that the country is not going to govern itself but he doesn't move from his chair : the nation can wait another day.
oOo oOo oOo
He is 41 and Sherlock, 34.
Mycroft finds out with some surprise that Sherlock has found himself a flatmate.
Mycroft is suspicious. Very suspicious.
Until now, apart from detective Lestrade and Miss Molly Hooper, Sherlock's acquaintances have been disreputable…A profound understatement because they almost killed his little brother…
Anthea brings him the file of the man who is moving in with Sherlock :
"John H Watson"
Mycroft studies closely the summary of his childhood, his studies and military past. He also examines Dr Watson's portrait : blond hair, tanned complexion, blue eyes.
Overall, this man, older than his brother by a few years, makes a good impression.
He tells himself that he could maybe help him watch his younger brother and keep him on the right path.
Mycroft hates field work but this is about his brother, so he calls Anthea to set a meeting place for him and John Watson.
And if, by any chance, this medical officer recently back from Afghanistan shows himself to be a detrimental man for Sherlock, Mycroft will do his job to suppress him.
And this, regardless of Sherlock's protests.
oOo oOo oOo
He is 42 and Sherlock, 35.
Mycroft has never been this calm concerning Sherlock's life. Dr Watson has done wonders on his little brother's behaviour : no more drug use, less risks of receiving a knife in the back while chasing criminals and a healthier lifestyle.
Mycroft could not have found a better man to look after Sherlock.
Not only John Watson protects Sherlock but he also brings him everything his brother has always needed even if he has never said it out loud : a certain form of normalcy that ties him to the real world, recognition, the feeling of being accepted as he is and especially : affection.
By refusing his offer to spy on his brother for money, Mycroft got the confirmation that Dr Watson was a good man and that Sherlock could not have had better.
He decides to trust John and to remove the security cameras hidden in the angles of the flat in 221B Baker Street.
oOo oOo oOo
He is 44 and Sherlock, 37.
Mycroft has never been this close to his brother. For the first time since Sherlock has become an adult, they are on the same side.
While John works at the clinic, his younger brother meets him in his office to create a plan that will oppose Jim Moriarty's and, even though Mycroft doesn't want to admit it and neither does Sherlock : it is a lot of work, even for two people, to develop a plan and put it to work.
Mycroft just wished that the two of them becoming closer hadn't everything to do with taking down Moriarty…
oOo oOo oOo
He is 45 and Sherlock, 38.
Mycroft helps his little brother break up piece by piece Moriarty's network which, just like a spider's web, spreads his shadow on every continent.
He watches over his brother as much as he can, watching his back but a dull fear is eating him away.
His little brother is resilient but he hasn't been able to hide his tiredness from his brother's sharp eyes. His face is extremely pale, his features more emaciated than ever and his curls are way too long and unkempt. But what strikes Mycroft is Sherlock's look : his grey eyes have become cold and dull.
The last time that he saw this look was during Sherlock's raids after his cocaine use…
His best agents are with him on the other side of the world but Mycroft has to admit it : the best bodyguard that Sherlock ever had has always answered the call.
He knows perfectly well why his little brother is maintaining John in the illusion but he wished that John was with Sherlock, just like the former soldier has always done since he met his brother.
Of course, Sherlock has never told him about his attachment to John but the look he has for the short blond says so much..
Mycroft asks himself how Sherlock has gotten this attached to John. But even though he cannot really understand the bond that unites his brother to the doctor, he watches over John because he knows that Sherlock would never get back on his feet if something happened to his friend while he is not watching.
oOo oOo oOo
He is 47 and Sherlock, 40.
They are almost done with breaking up Moriarty's network : the Serbian ramification is the only one left.
Wrapped up warmly in several layers of clothing, Mycroft remains sited while Sherlock is getting tortured in a humid and frozen basement in this country filled with degenerate and backward people.
He stares obstinately at the greenish spots of mould, trying to filter out the grunts and screams of pain that Sherlock lets out despite himself. Mycroft clenches his teeth when he hears the dull sound of the torturer's blows on his little brother's body.
He doesn't move because this is all part of the plan to capture the last members of Moriarty's network. He must wait before putting an end to this sordid comedy but this wait costs him.
Him, who all his life, has punished the people who harmed his little brother, is now forced to let a moron unwind on Sherlock…
And then suddenly, he feels that this has lasted too long and so he steps in, using his knowledge of the Serbian language that he memorised in two hours in the plane that was heading for Sherlock and his gaolers.
Once the torturer is gone, he stands up and turns his head towards Sherlock, whose face is hidden by a much too long mane of hair. He sees the naked torso and the stretched out arms, the wrists circled by thick shackles. He has a visual of the wounds on Sherlock's back but doesn't say anything. Because, if he feels worry and anger, it is absolutely out of the question for him to show that in front of his brother and anyway, Sherlock can't stand when people worry for him.
Silencing his feelings, that won't lead him to anything, he grabs a handful of this absurdly long hair and whispers with a cold indifference that an attack is going to happen in London and that it's time to come home.
As he is freeing Sherlock, he thinks about the journey home that will occur in an icy silence but it matters little because their work is now done. He is going to return to the comfort of his office and Sherlock, Baker Street's. However, a question is left unanswered : how will Sherlock cope with the fact that John has started a new life without him ?
oOo oOo oOo
He is 48 and Sherlock, 41.
The night has fallen. From his helicopter, he looks at his little brother, who is still, his hands in the air, the sides of his coat and his brown curls shaking wildly with the air stirred by the helicopter's blades. His sharp mind stops working and a single series of questions is played in on a loop :
Sherlock, what have you done ? What will become of you ? Sherlock, what have you done ? Sherlock, what will happen to you ?
Mycroft has always worried for his younger brother but right now, he doesn't feel concern but fear.
He has never been this afraid.
Sherlock, who he has always strove to protect has sentenced himself to death and Mycroft can't do anything about it.
His brother is going to be exiled, sent in Eastern Europe for a mission and he won't come back.
Mycroft is going to lose his brother because of the biggest blackmailer to have ever set foot on British soil…
All of these thoughts resonate like a tocsin.
Mycroft takes his headset off and, his heart so tightened that it hurts, he whispers :
"Oh, Sherlock…What have you done ?"
He doesn't see the tall and proud his little brother has become but the little boy who deep down, Sherlock has always been.
Especially to him.
He feels his eyes prick him when he sees the young boy raising his hands above his head, his eyes shining with fear and his lips shaking.
Mycroft sees the red dots of the snipers dancing on his little brother's body. He sees the men ready to kill his brother.
He has never had regrets about his choice of career but, right now, he does. Because if he wasn't ruling Great Britain between the four walls of his lugubrious office, Sherlock wouldn't be standing in front of him, his life hanging on by a thread that will be cut in six months at most.
Magnussen wouldn't have tried to manipulate every one of the people dear to his younger brother. Sherlock has always been too sensitive…too heroic. Mycroft should have predicted his reaction…But he didn't see anything because this is about Sherlock, the only person he feels affection for and that attachment is not an asset because it makes him blind.
In the end…everything is his fault…
.
.
A few days later, Mycroft, further back, his back straight, one hand gripping with more strength than necessary the pommel of his umbrella, watches his little brother say his goodbyes to John. He watches these two men who don't know what to say because there is at the same time too much and nothing to say. He hides a smile when Sherlock tries to lighten the mood. John laughs and Mycroft sees his brother' eyes light up and the smile that adorns his lips. The older silently thanks the former soldier for making his little brother smile one last time.
The farewells between the two friends don't draw out. Sherlock gets in the plane without a word for him. There is no "goodbye" between them. Mycroft already knew that but that doesn't stop a knot in his throat from forming…
He is seeing his brother for the last time…
With the dangerous lifestyle that Sherlock leads, he has often asked himself what the last vision of his brother would be. Now, he has his answer : the vision of a man with tense shoulders, lips white as they are pressing against each other and unusually shiny eyes.
Mycroft tells himself that he would have preferred never to receive the answer to this question…
The plane draws away and he doesn't say anything. He glances at John near Mary. The doctor doesn't seem sad. No, in reality, it's the opposite : he is extremely calm. Too calm for an impulsive man like him. Mycroft wonders if the doctor realizes that he will never see 
 Sherlock again.
With a robotic walk, he heads towards his black saloon car, opens the door and sits in the seat radiating with the smell of new leather. He tries to make the knot inside his throat disappear. His phone rings and he sighs, picks up and listens to the voice that is flowing in an urgent output. He feels the blood flowing out of his face when the screen of the car's dashboard lights up to display the picture of Moriarty's face as the speakers spread the criminal's piercing voice "Miss Me ?". These words repeated in a looping manner that doesn't want to stop.
Mycroft doesn't understand everything, but, what he knows, is that his little brother is going to come back. Is going to go back to 
 even though, neither Sherlock nor Mycroft would want to admit it. Sentimentalism is not made for them and this is great as it is, tells himself the older of the two brothers as he dials Sherlock's phone number.
Hope you liked it and if you did, don't hesitate to tell the author of this fic (reminder : the account's name is Adalas), she deserves all the praise for her work ! And I know that translating is not nearly as glamour as writing something yourself, but it does require some work, so if you think that it was a good enough, feel free to review or follow :) !
