It was October 31st, and John was preparing to take Rosie out trick or treating. Upon her insistence, he'd put on a pair of bunny ears.
Sure, it was a bit humiliating, but anything for Rosie.
"Sherlock? Almost ready?"
A loud, dramatic sigh was heard followed by loud footsteps, and the world's only consulting detective appeared, wearing a fairy costume, complete with wings, a tutu, and a wand.
"Happy?" he growled, looking at Rosie, who clapped and laughed.
John tried to stifle his own laughter.
"Why aren't you wearing anything?" Sherlock asked.
"I am. I'm a bunny."
"You have to wear the full thing for it to count, not just the ears."
John rolled his eyes. "Let's go."
Mrs. Hudson stopped them in the hallway.
"Oh Rosie! You're such a cute little princess! And Sherlock…"
"Don't start," he sighed.
"Best I don't. Well, have fun!"
"This is utterly humiliating, John," he hissed.
John laughed. "Just enjoy it."
They arrived at the first house, and Rosie eagerly toddled up the stairs, John following closely behind.
"Are you coming, Sherlock?" he asked, looking back at his friend who was loitering at the edge of the driveway.
"Oh, alright."
John shrugged, and they both followed Rosie around from house to house, gathering candy.
At one point, John snapped a picture of Sherlock waving his hands about, wings askew as he complained about something, and he sent it to Lestrade.
Finally, around 8:30, John could see Rosie wws getting tired.
He picked her up, and they headed back towards 221B.
When they arrived, John changed Rosie into her pajamas, and laid her in bed.
"Goodnight, Rosie."
"G'night Daddy," she mumbled.
John closed the door behind him, and joined Sherlock in the sitting room. He had ditched the wings and tutu for his night robe, and offered John a cup of tea when he walked in.
"Thanks."
"Did she have fun?" Sherlock asked.
"I think so. Oh, in fact, she told me to give this to you." John dug in his pocket and handed his friend a York patty.
Sherlock chuckled, and made to put it away.
"Eat it."
"Hmm?"
"You've barely eaten anything today."
"And you think candy would be a good place to start," Sherlock countered.
"Just eat it. If you're still hungry, which you should be, we're not on a case, I'll get some takeaway."
Sherlock sighed, and ripped the package open. He took a bite, and then ate the whole thing.
"Happy Halloween, John."
