"Sherlock come look!", Molly squeals excitedly from the next room. She has been told by her doctor to try to get off her feet more, so she had finally taken her maternity leave from Bart's. Their surprise baby girl is due in May and Molly has about a month and a half to go, unless she decides to greet the world early.
Sherlock runs to the room in a panic, his silver-streaked curls glittering in the light. "Molly? What? What's wrong!?"
Molly giggles and hold up a pair of tiny pink knit booties. "Booties!", she grins proudly. "I finally got to knit them!"
He heaves a sigh of relief and walks over to her. "Geez, you scared me half to death, I thought your water broke."
"I can assure you I wouldn't be so blasé if my water had broken. I'd be screaming for you, not playfully calling for you, my darling."
"Mhh, true...but you know that I don't take tone into account when you're nearly ready to pop at any moment."
Molly laughs and rolls her eyes. "Anyway, aren't these the cutest little pink booties!? I can't believe I finally mastered knitting enough to make them. It's so relaxing. You should join me sometime. I bet you'd catch on really fast. You did learn how to fold napkins using only YouTube tutorial."
Sherlock smirks and shrugs. "Can you imagine what people would think if they knew I was knitting? John? Greg? They'd have a field day making fun."
"Well, we don't have to tell them. I think we should try together."
He sighs softly. "Fine, but this stays between us, okay?"
She reaches over and hakes his hand, intertwining their fingers. "I promise. Sherlock, I'd never want to humiliate you, I just enjoy spending tie with you when we do have free time on occasion, and I think you'd take to knitting quickly. Maybe quicker than me. Who knows, we could possibly knit Callie a blanket together. It could be fun."
He squeezes her hand and nods, leaning down to press a soft kiss to her lips. "Alright, I'm sorry, everything has just been so busy lately I get grumpy."
"It's okay", she smiles, kissing his hand. "I forgive you."
"Good, because I love you very much, Molly Holmes."
"I love you too, Sherlock Holmes."
.
.
A week later, Sherlock and Molly finally have some time alone and Molly goes over the techniques used in knitting. She also shows him a YouTube video that she had used to learn how to and the technique that she had used to make the booties, which seems the easiest for her.
As they get started, Sherlock picks it up as quickly as she believed he would and she grins, watching him enjoy himself, honing in on what he was doing, and perfecting every small project he tried. Sherlock ended up making their unborn daughter purple booties to go with Molly's pink ones as well as tiny mitts for her hands.
A few more sessions with Molly over the course of the next month and he was nearly a professional knitter.
"Sherlock, I told you that you'd pick it up! I'm in awe of just how fast you have though. What do you think about starting that blanket with me?"
"Ooh, that's a great idea. Also, thank you for introducing this to me. I know I was skeptical, but it is as calming as you said, plus it's something I can do with my amazing wife."
Molly grins cutely and leans over, kissing him lovingly before gasping. "Oh! There she goes again", she snorts.
Sherlock beams and reaches over, placing his hand over her belly, and feeling his youngest daughter kick beneath it. "Wow, she's a feisty one. Like her Mum", he smirks.
"Heyy!", Molly giggles, nudging him. "Now let's see, what should the blanket look like?"
"I'm thinking yellow, and maybe we can write her name across the side?"
"That sounds lovely, Sherlock."
He smiles and nods, grabbing his knitting needles and picking up the yellow yarn, ecstatic about their new hobby and the upcoming birth of their youngest.
