, by 
: K
: Not mine.
: The first meeting doesn't go as expected.
"Well, it's obviously a murder."
Lestrade may not know much in the way of how the mind of others works, but he's been on the force a few years now and even he knows having a knife slammed through the chest and into the heart is pretty much high up there on a way to murder someone. He turns to his… partner, he guesses, still not quite sure what to make of the man beside him.
His manners are brash, his attitude to others stinks, but Lestrade sort of likes him, the way he sees what others can't or don't or won't, his desire to solve the crime no matter what the outcome means, not to mention his own solve rate has definitely gone on the upward trend since they joined forces, or whatever he wants to call it.
He turns to give Sherlock a small smirk, but instead of the expected eyeroll he sees a furrowed brow, and suddenly he feels like he's missed something obvious.
Again.
He turns back to the guy on the slab. Mid 40's. Apparent domestic gone wrong, if the big knife that was implanted in the guy's chest until a few hours ago is anything to go by. They've had the wife in the cells for the past day, and time is running out. They need a lead, because right now she keeps changing her mind, her latest defence being that he did this to himself, and without any other witnesses he needs 
 he can take to CPS to get him some more time. But the furrowed brow makes him pause, and he shoots his own quizzical brow around the room.
"It 
 a murder, right?"
"Hmm," Sherlock says.
"Hmm," 
 says, head tilted this way and that as if she's considering it. As if there might be 
. And then something amazing happens. Because Sherlock Holmes, who has paid not a whit of attention to any of the other pathologists he has been forced to, and he uses the term very loosely here, work with in the past… eight? nine? cases, turns his head and 
.
Lestrade looks between them, then down to the victim on the slab, trying to work out what it is they have both obviously seen but he hasn't. He starts at the top, works his way down, past the gaping hole in the chest where the kitchen knife has since been removed, to the sheet that covers him from the waist down. Whatever it was that has caught their attention, it's upper body at least. But he'll be dammed if he knows what it is. Finally, with a sigh, he gives up.
"What?"
"Well, it's just… the wound site. It's clean."
He turns to the pathologist, slightly surprised the answer has come from her when Sherlock is stood right there and has obviously seen the same thing (along with probably another half a dozen he's also missed). "Like what?" he asks. "They wiped it afterwards? Or they only took one blow?"
"No. It's not that. It's just, there's no fibres." And she gestures to where the wound is.
Lestrade shakes his head, confused. "Okay?"
But Sherlock takes a breath, and even from beside him he can feel the other man come to some sort of conclusion. He takes a step away, to where the clothing of the vic is still folded in its bags. Lestrade is vaguely surprised when he dons some gloves, but before he can say anything Sherlock has the shirt out of the bag, held up to the light.
He looks at it for a moment, glancing over to the guy on the slab, before nodding his head.
"Of course." He starts folding the clothing back up, stripping his gloves off once finished. Lost as he is as to what has happened to gain this kind of compliance to the rules, he almost misses Dr Hooper as she continues to explain things to him.
"And the angle's all off. The notes said the suspect is what, 5'3"? That's about my height. She'd have to have been standing on a box, or something. That, or, I dunno, jumping?"
Before he can ask anything else, Sherlock butts in. Honestly, Lestrade is surprised it's taken this long for his patience to wear out. But not nearly surprised by what happens next. Because Sherlock doesn't act out, or insults her intelligence or her theories or her… anything. Instead, he nods. Offers his hand.
"Right. Thanks for that… what was your name again?"
"Dr Hooper. Molly."
And Dr Hooper (Molly) takes the hand proffered, like she isn't aware of the magnitude of the whole situation.
"I look forward to working with you again in the future." Sherlock says, and while Lestrade is busy having a slight heart attack at the honestly and the glee in his associates face, the man himself shoots a small smile, not a fake grin but a real smile, in her direction.
Lestrade is chocking on air at this point, and therefore doesn't notice when Sherlock turns and starts striding out of the morgue without him.
"Come along Gavin. You need to release your suspect."
It's the wrong name (AGAIN!) that snaps him out of his stupor. "It's Greg! How many times do I need to…" and then the order he's just been given sinks in. "Wait, wait, what? Release her? Why?"
"No fibres." And Sherlock rolls his eyes at 
, like 
 the idiot he's being forced to work with.
"You said that before."
Sherlock stops, shaking his head, and there's the look he's been expecting all afternoon, still being aimed at him. "There's missing buttons on his shirt. No fibres in the wound. The wife is so angry she takes a knife to his chest but takes the time to undress him first? Dr Hooper's right, the angle is off and how many times have you come across a stabbing with the knife still in place? No, this is a suicide. Pretty dull. Next time, call me for something really challenging."
And he walks away, leaving Lestrade reeling, a wife needing release, and the feeling he's just missed something big happening.
But he'll be damned if he knows what.
End.
