Irene lay back against the hard chest behind her sighing as the warm water consumed her body. The soapy suds floating around her, tickling her skin, she turned slightly as arms wrapped around her waist. She lifted a hand placing it lightly on Sherlock's chest, looking up into his bright eyes. Irene couldn't help the smile that spread across her face that was answered by Sherlock's own smile. Sherlock leaned down gently kissing Irene 'I love you' he whispered against her lips this made Irene smile further 'I love you too Mr Holmes' seeing Sherlock's slight frown at the name she had just given him made Irene smile further 'I love you Sherlock' she leaned forward to kiss him again 'My Sherlock'
Sherlock grinned…yes he liked that her 
 
. He moved his legs slightly, swishing the water as he tried to tangle their legs together under the water pulling her closer by her waist. Irene couldn't help the giggle that left her lips as the bubbles moved against her skin again as Sherlock moved her around. Sherlock picked up a sponge from the side of the bath, dipping it into the water before gently wiping it across Irene's shoulders watching her shiver as the air hit where the sponge had just passed across her skin. Sherlock leaned down again, starting to follow the path that the sponge had just followed with his lips. Irene shivered with each kiss that graced her skin, Sherlock always made her feel like the most beautiful and loved person on the planet.
Irene turned to straddle Sherlock so she was facing him in the bath, she took the sponge out of Sherlock's hand dipping it back into the water, they had been in the bath so long that the bubbles were starting to dwindle in the chilling water. Irene started to gently wipe the sponge across Sherlock's bare chest, smiling when he flinched from the cold water touching his skin. 'Irene we should get out, I don't want you catching a cold.' He smiled, stroking her cheek as she nodded, standing and stepping out of the bath waiting for Sherlock to follow her, as she turned around he wrapped a large white bathrobe around her smiling down before wrapping a towel around his own waist.
