John had truly no idea what was going on by this point. If he didn't know any better, he'd say Sherlock's heart had been broken- for the second time since John had known him. He hardly spoke, ate, or slept. Instead, Sherlock spent the majority of his days stood staring out of the window, playing his violin. It seemed to be the same melody over and over again, but each time it sounded slightly different. Or maybe John was wrong; he hadn't been paying that much attention to it either way. His main concern was how he had managed to miss the lead up to this situation. As far as John had been aware, Sherlock had been his usual self- not interested in anyone or anything other than his work. But right now, his behaviour clearly showed that his heart was in pieces; just like he had been after 
disappeared. John had tried subtly asking him a couple of times, but he was met with silence each time. He considered asking him bluntly, but he doubted that would get him anywhere either. Sherlock wasn't exactly one for straight answers. So, John decided to just try and ignore it as much as possible; hopefully Sherlock would pull himself out of whatever he was in. This lasted for almost a month before John finally discovered what Sherlock had really been up to. After eating dinner alone, yet again, John realised he didn't really have much else to do and decided to go to bed. But before he could get very far, a pair of hands appeared from behind him and covered his eyes.
"Guess who," whispered an unmistakable voice in John's ear, sending a slight shiver down his spine.
"Hmmm... I wonder," he laughed sarcastically, choosing to go along with whatever it was that Sherlock was doing. At least he was actually communicating with him now.
"Come with me," Sherlock instructed and, while still keeping his hands firmly over John's eyes, he began leading him through the flat. A slow heat began crawling across John's cheeks as he felt Sherlock's gentle breath against the back of his neck. After John had become completely disorientated, Sherlock eventually allowed them to slow to a stop. After a small pause, Sherlock pulled his hands away from John's eyes, revealing the room in front of them. They had ended up in the very room John had been heading towards in the first place- his bedroom. John blinked a few times to get his eyes used to the light again before gasping at the sight in front of him. Candles lit the room with a gentle glow and his bed had been covered in cushions and blankets. Sherlock gently nudged John's arm, leading him towards the bed, smiling softly at the look of wonder on John's face as he looked around the room. Slowly he sat down on the edge of the bed and, after realising John appeared to be almost stuck in place, gently tugged his arm to get him to sit beside him.
"What's this all for?" John barely whispered, still gazing around in slight awe.
"You may have noticed I have been a little... reserved as of late," Sherlock said, almost awkwardly, not quite making eye contact.
"That's one way to put it," John huffed, raising an eyebrow.
"Well, it has been for a reason," Sherlock explained, the smallest hint of a smile ghosting his lips as he gracefully stood up. John watched him with careful curiosity as he walked over to the corner of the room and picked something off the floor. After a brief pause, John's eyes widened even further when he realised Sherlock was now holding his violin. Sherlock remained still for a moment, feeling John's eyes study his every move. Then, with a slight extra flourish, he brought up the bow and gently began to play. The second the music hit John's ears, he was transfixed. He recognised the melody instantly; it was the same one Sherlock had been playing almost consistently for the past month. But, something about it was slightly different than before. It felt more refined and full of heart and emotion. The music filled John's chest and he found himself relaxing back into the cushions behind him as the song continued. That's when he noticed Sherlock's eyes. Normally when he played, his eyes were closed in concentration and his brow furrowed slightly. But now, Sherlock's focus was firmly on John. They watched one another as Sherlock continued to play, neither of them wishing to break their gaze. After what felt like both forever and not enough time at all, Sherlock's playing slowed and eventually stopped. A nervous yet hopeful silence filled the room.
"That was beautiful," John eventually managed to say softly, still slightly breathless.
"It was for you," Sherlock spoke equally as quietly, still clutching to the violin as though it were his lifeline.
"For me?" John blinked in surprise, taken aback by Sherlock's genuine words.
"Yes, I wrote it for you," Sherlock bowed his head, looking away from John as he lowered his violin.
"You mean... all that time, you were writing a song for... me?" John could hardly believe this was really happening.
"Yes," Sherlock replied simply, still not looking up.
"That's the most wonderful thing anyone has ever done for me," John admitted, a smile spreading across his face.
"You liked it?" Sherlock asked with an uncharacteristic unhidden joy, his eyes meeting John's once more.
"Like it? It was incredible! 
 are incredible," John almost laughed in disbelief. Before his mind could comprehend what was happening, his body was already moving towards Sherlock. Without thinking, he wrapped his arms around the taller man and pulled him into a hug. Initially, Sherlock froze in place. Then, after a moment, his body softened and he returned John's embrace. He felt warm and safe there, held tightly in John's arms.
"I think I finally understand what has been going on," John almost whispered, pulling back slightly but remaining close to Sherlock, gently pressing their foreheads together.
"You do?" Sherlock said hopefully, wishing beyond wish that his heart had been right, just this once.
"Yes... and I love you too," John smiled, looking up to see Sherlock smiling back at him. And, for now at least, that was all either of them needed- just each other in this moment.
