I don't own Sherlock.
Please let me know what you think.
The World's only Private Consulting Detective.
Society was already aware of private investigators, and it only made logical sense whenever he told people about what he did they assumed he was another private detective.
Sherlock took umbrage to that.
He was much more than a mere detective. He was a Private Consulting Detective, an occupation totally unique and one of his own invention. While he did take on cases such as private investigator, Sherlock had also made himself available to the London Metropolitan Police and, as hard as it was for him to accept Mycroft's help, occasionally he did work for the British government while he had to cope with incompetent idiots Mycroft surrounded him with.
At the same time, he made himself known to the police.
It hadn't been easy advertising himself to them; many of the police resented him, and that was alright with Sherlock. Why should he care about their feelings or their impressions? All he was interested in was the work and Sherlock was definitely interested in crimes which, on the surface to police officers as dull-witted as Anderson and Donovan, people who couldn't see the bigger picture than he could. Where they saw what was right in front of them beyond his best efforts, Sherlock saw stories. He knew there was more to the crime scenes that he saw that they couldn't see.
And it frustrated him.
And it was the reason why Sherlock went out of his way to make people see and observe, and he genuinely wondered if he was wasting his time. That was why he insulted the intelligence of those around him. Even John and Lestrade were not immune; they were just as bad as everyone else. They believed life was so ordinary and Lestrade only saw what was in front of them while John was blinded by a haze of emotions that got in the way.
Sherlock remembered the way John lashed out when Moriarty played his game, giving him little clues about the scope of his organisation and had proven to be invaluable enough to give Sherlock ideas of what the Consulting criminal did. In many ways Sherlock was envious because Moriarty seemed to have more scope in his line of work than Sherlock did in his; Moriarty had consulted with many people from art forgers to simple people who were tired of life and wanted to provide for families, while others just wanted to kill to save others pain and smuggling a criminal organisation into the country.
Sherlock merely had the police to offer him interesting cases and the occasional bit of work from Mycroft.
What if he went further?
What if he asked Mycroft to put him in touch with the Intelligence services and asked for something more far-reaching, something far more challenging than just mediocre games that he sometimes had to play. And besides, it would be good to test his skills and knowledge against people from around the world, and perhaps even experience everything the world had to offer instead of staying in London. He might not like asking Mycroft for anything, but sometimes the occasional favour could go a long way.
He was the only Private Consulting Detective and if there was one thing his conflicts with Moriarty had taught him, it was you had to go big.
