Sherlock hadn't spoken in days and John was beginning to worry. The latest case hadn't been a big-y and Sherlock had been rather annoyed to find out he had left the flat for only a four. The murder had been pretty easy to solve, well to Sherlock he had walked in and turned straight back around telling Lestrade to arrest the woman's twin sister as she had been killed due to her twin's envy of her relationship with her boyfriend. Sherlock had stormed past Donovan and Anderson's onslaught seeming to ignore every word that was fired at him. John walked past them also glaring at them for the harsh, disgusting words. If he had time he would have stopped to give them both a piece of his mind but he needed to keep up with Sherlock. But since stepping foot into 221B Sherlock had collapsed onto the sofa before even taking his coat and scarf off and curling up and that was where he had remained. Coat and scarf still on curled up into the back of the sofa staring at the cushion, he hadn't spoken and he hadn't eaten but to John this wasn't much to worry about, Sherlock didn't tend to eat much as it was and spent most of his days in his mind palace. But this silence was actually getting to him, he loved to hear Sherlock's comments over how frustrated he was or just random inklings towards an experiment he was conducting but this…the silence, the fact Sherlock hadn't even removed his coat was starting to affect John more than he was willing to let on. John walked towards Sherlock with caution; he knew how the man could become highly strung when left for a long period of time to dwell in his thoughts.
John slowly reached out towards Sherlock's shoulder just as he noticed that he was shaking slightly. At first John was confused; he thought that Sherlock couldn't be cold not with the fire burning and that he was still wearing his coat which was wrapped tightly around his body. Also John had laid a blanket over Sherlock two days ago to make sure that he stayed warm while he slept on the sofa. The blanket hadn't moved or been thrown off when he had awoken…whenever it was. John felt his heart break a little as he realised that Sherlock was crying, he gently rested a hand on Sherlock's shoulder. Sherlock tensed up quickly bringing his hand up to wipe his face, sniffing quietly trying to cover the trace that he had been crying for the past four days, crying himself to sleep continuously. He didn't want to explain to John exactly why he was crying, he was a sociopath he had told John this over and over but he knew deep down inside that he wasn't really, he still felt things, he still felt the sharp stabbing pain sent with each harsh assaulting word that came out of people's mouths towards him. He had been called a 'freak' a 'weirdo' and many other words during High School that had caused permanent damage towards his mind. They still floated round in his mind palace, he had tried shutting them away, locking them up in their own little room somewhere in his mind so he didn't have to remember any of them but every time he went to a crime scene where Donovan or Anderson where the memories just seemed to pour straight back out of that locked room in the back of his mind and play havoc causing his emotions to come into play, leaving him in the position he found himself in now.
He slowly turned to look at John, his red rimmed eyes telling John everything he needed to know about why Sherlock hadn't moved from the position he was in now for days. John moved to sit down next to Sherlock moving his hand so it gently rested on his leg watching him carefully, Sherlock sniffed again looking at John's hand. 'Sherlock? What's wrong?' John couldn't bear to see Sherlock looking like this, it just wasn't him. Sherlock sniffed once more before sitting up reaching to keep hold of John's hand to make sure he wouldn't retreat. John gently squeezed Sherlock's hand hoping to encourage Sherlock into talking about what had gotten him into such a state, it had to be something important if Sherlock had worked himself up so much. Sherlock shook his head slightly, refusing to tell John what was wrong. John squeezed Sherlock's hand again 'Please Sherlock I'm worried about you.' This made Sherlock raise his head to look John straight in the eye, he didn't understand, John was worried. John was worried about him? Why would John be worried about him? Sherlock frowned looking at John, 'Yes Sherlock, I'm worried about you. So why not tell me what's gotten you into such a state?' Sherlock sniffed again hearing the harsh words begin to float around his head again 'I..' Sherlock whispered, feeling his voice catch slightly as a lump began to build in his throat again. 'It hurt' Sherlock was whispering again but hearing the word 
made the doctor within John snap into action 'Where hurts Sherlock? You need to tell me' Sherlock looked him straight in the eye frowning slightly 'What they say…it hurts' Sherlock continued to whisper but John caught straight on to what Sherlock was meaning. 'Oh Sherlock,' John whispered before quickly gathering Sherlock into a one armed hug, continuing to keep a grip on Sherlock's hand.
Sherlock melted into John's arms finally feeling safe; he couldn't stop the tears that began to flow all over again. John held Sherlock tighter when he felt Sherlock begin to cry again, he shuffled closer to Sherlock feeling his heart drop slightly for the pain Sherlock was in due to the words thrown at him at crime scenes. John pulled back slightly to speak to Sherlock but Sherlock held onto John tighter whining quietly. John moved closer to Sherlock again, unable to deny him the comfort he so desperately wanted. 'Sherlock, you do know they're wrong don't you.' John expected to hear Sherlock's usual reply of 
 but instead he felt Sherlock's slight shake of head which had burrowed itself into John's chest when he moved closer. This response made John tighten his grip, how could a man so strong and so clever not realise that he wasn't a freak, he was the most perfect man that John had ever met. John held Sherlock for a further three hours not moving from the space or position they had gotten into and not speaking anything, just holding each other. John would run his fingers gently through Sherlock's curls every now and then to supply a bit of comfort to Sherlock, to let him know that he was still there. He wasn't leaving him, but as the hours ticked by John was beginning to feel a little stiff and looking at the position that Sherlock had gotten himself into there was no way that the younger man was comfortable. John shifted slightly earning a quiet whine which unless listening closely was impossible to hear, John though was listening closely he didn't want to hurt or upset Sherlock further. As John drew his hands back to lift Sherlock away from him gently he felt Sherlock's grip tighten on the back of his jumper. Looking down, John found that Sherlock had drifted off to sleep in the awkward position he was in, John didn't understand why or how this was possible, and Sherlock's neck was going to really hurt when he woke up which means that he will be unbearable to live with. But an upset and in pain Sherlock was something John had never come across before, it was also something John never wished to come across.
John gently pried Sherlock's hands off his jumper feeling guilty with each whimper that Sherlock emitted. John then set about lifting Sherlock up gently moving him so he was easier to carry before carrying the younger man towards his bedroom. The moment that John set him down and covered him up Sherlock groggily grabbed John's wrist looking up at him sleepily 'please John, stay.' John was torn, he didn't want to leave the younger man when he was in this state, but Sherlock was half asleep would he appreciate waking up next to John when he finally came around, but the pained expression on his face as he took longer than Sherlock would have liked to reply made John's decision easier. He lifted the covers that he had just so gently laid over Sherlock before climbing into the bed and recovering them both, he never usually slept in his jeans because they were uncomfortable and irritated the skin but he didn't think Sherlock would be too pleased to wake next to a half-naked John. The minute that John was laying down and comfortable next to Sherlock the taller man turned curling his body around John's before relaxing enough to fall back into a peaceful sleep.
