Hey guys! Welcome to the twenty second installment of my 'Under the Mistletoe Series Part Two'
What is this series? Well, around this time six years I got the song 'Holly Jolly Christmas' stuck in my head and wrote eleven drabbles based on kissing underneath mistletoe, and each one was for a different ship. This year I decided to do a Part Two and really challenge myself by writing something for each day from 1st-25th December. So twenty five ships, all kissing under mistletoe, like my own personal advent calendar as it were. Each one can be read alone. I know that not everyone is going to want to read every fic in the series, but I hope that you find them all enjoyable regardless, I know I certainly had fun writing them.
So this ended up a lot longer than I intended it to, but I'm not mad about it. I thoroughly enjoyed writing this, I hope that you like reading it too ^_^
Enjoy, much love xox
XOXOXOXOXOXOXOXOXOXOXOXOXOXOXOXOXOXOXOXOXOXOXOXOXOXOXOXOXOXOXOXOXOXOXOXOXOXOXOXOXOXOXOXOXOXO
Greg was nervous; he hadn't been on a date in a very long time, since he'd met his ex-wife actually. They'd been separated, and now divorced for well over a year, and while he was enjoying the quietness of bachelor life, Greg was lonely. He'd been lonely for longer than his marriage had been over; they had merely been two people sharing a house rather than man and wife towards the end.
All of that was over now though, and tonight Greg was going on a date. A blind date of all things, but John had promised that it would be a suitable match, and Greg trusted John not to set him up with someone completely incompatible.
He had donned his best button up for the occasion, the deep maroon was complemented by the black of his trousers, but then just about anything went with black. His silvering hair was combed neatly, and he folded a dark grey coat over one arm for later when the night air would be chill.
The taxi dropped Greg right at the front door of the most expensive restaurant he'd ever been to in his life; he could tell just from looking at the outside of the building. John had told him that his date had chosen the venue and offered to pay as well. Greg didn't know how he felt about that, but he had agreed as his budget was a pub meal and a few drinks.
The restaurant host informed Greg that he had arrived first before showing him to his table, which had a splendid view of London. A glass of water was poured for him, and a menu put into his hands, Greg browsed the menu, his eyes bulging at the prices, while he waited for his date to arrive.
Greg glanced at his watch, seeing that ten minutes had passed, and tried to push his anxiety away. He had been five minutes early, so his date was only five minutes late; it was nothing to be concerned about…yet.
After another ten minutes, Greg's nerves were getting the better of him and he thought about leaving. As the thought crossed his mind, the host came over to him explaining that he'd just received a phone call and Greg's date would still be another five minutes.
Greg nodded and thanked him; at least he wasn't being stood up.
"Don't worry sir, he'll be here, he is a man of his word," the host assured Greg before hurrying off to greet new guests.
Greg learnt two things about his date then; that they were a man, and they came here often enough that the host knew what kind of man he was.
The last time Greg had been with a man had been collage, don't get him wrong, he was still interested in men, it had just been decades. Perhaps John had thought it would be good change for the DI, maybe John was right; the prospect of potentially dating a man again excited him more than dating another woman. Greg hadn't even realised how much he wanted it until now, he was certainly more enthusiastic to meet his date than before.
As his watch told him that it had been another five minutes, a ginger haired man in black, pin stripe, three piece suit approached him. Greg sighed; trust a Holmes to be at the same restaurant as his date.
"My, don't you scrub up nicely, I was beginning to wonder if you only owned the clothes you work in," Mycroft postulated as he arrived at the table.
Greg had never noticed how well Mycroft's suits were tailored to the curves of his body until now; he enjoyed a man in a fitted suit as much as the next person. His date would be here any moment though, and he didn't want Mycroft hanging around to meet them, "Uh, thank you, I think. Look, sorry Mycroft, but I'm actually meeting someone, so if you wouldn't mind…"
"I know, I apologise for the tardiness, the Queen…well…enough about that," Mycroft cut himself off with a secretive smile as the host came over. He pulled out Mycroft's chair, poured him a glass of water and handed him a menu, "A bottle of my usual to start, if you would, Mr Jones," Mycroft requested.
"Right away, Mr Holmes," the host replied with a curt nod and hurried off again.
Greg's mouth was gaping slightly as Mycroft gave him his attention, "Is something wrong Gregory?"
"I, uh, you…I'm sorry, just…John set me up on a date with 
?" he wasn't entirely sure what was going on.
"I asked him to," Mycroft answered the unspoken question.
"Why?" why would Mycroft Holmes possibly want to go on a date with him?
"Why do people normally go on dates?"
"Many reasons, I want to know yours…" Greg pressed for more information, because there was always something with Mycroft and Greg wanted to know what it was.
A waiter returned with the bottle of wine before Mycroft could say any more. After approving the wine, they ordered their entrée and main, Mycroft not needing to open his menu to place his order.
"So…" Greg prompted once the waiter had left the table again, "why are we here?"
"You're awfully suspicious 
," Mycroft smirked, "can a man not ask another man out for dinner without there being an ulterior motive?"
"In my experience with Holmes' not particularly," Greg sighed as he picked up his wine glass and sipped from it.
"Hmm, I suppose that there are things that I want from this dinner, however, I do not believe that they are the same things that you are accusing me of," Mycroft affirmed, openly watching Greg's movements.
"Perhaps you should tell me what you 
 want then Mycroft," Greg urged, trying to keep his nerve under those scrutinising eyes.
Mycroft hummed, "To tell one's true desires is to expose a part of one's self," he paused, "but I can see that it is necessary in this situation or I fear that this will have all been for nought."
Greg frowned, he had expected games from the moment Mycroft had appeared at the table in his pristine suit, but he hadn't expected Mycroft to be 'real' with him, "Go on…"
A few moments passed in silence, and just when Greg thought that the oldest Holmes wasn't going to continue, Mycroft began to speak, "I had two short lived relationships in collage, neither meant much; I was more interested in pursuing my career and taking care of my family. Recently however, I have discovered that there is something, or rather a someone I suppose, missing from my life. I come home and the house feels empty now, like it never has before. I find myself noticing a cheek dimple, the sway of hips, or bright eyes, for no reason other than it pleases me. It is difficult for a Holmes…Sherlock got lucky with Doctor Watson, and though I didn't initially understand why Sherlock would want that, I believe that I am beginning to."
Greg listened intently, and almost couldn't comprehend what he was hearing. He took another sip of wine and put the glass down, "Mycroft…I-I think you might be lonely," he speculated, uncertain as to whether Mycroft had realised it yet.
"Regretfully, I have come to the same conclusion, and so…here we are," Mycroft gestured to the restaurant around them as he spoke, and at the same time their entrée arrived.
The food was some of the best that Greg had ever tasted, even though he wasn't sure what half of the stuff on his plate even was. He was so distracted by how amazing the food tasted that he almost forgot that they were having a serious conversation, "So, you genuinely just want…a companion? A relationship? This really is just a date between two lonely blokes?"
Mycroft nodded and drank some wine, "Yes."
"Why me though?" Greg asked gently, "I'm nothing special…"
"One woman's nothing, could be another man's everything," Mycroft stated, arranging his cutlery on his empty plate.
Greg raised an eyebrow, "That's rather romantic of you Mycroft."
"You underestimate yourself Gregory. You possess many favourable qualities; you are able to withstand the way us Holmes' are, you understand your limits and are humble about it, and I would apply the term 'silver haired fox' to you," Mycroft concluded concisely, his eyes truly taking in Greg's features.
If Greg had been drinking something he might have choked; no one had ever called him that before, and never would he have expected to hear it from Mycroft Holmes. Nor had he ever expected this man to look at him the way he did in that moment, "I'm flattered," it was given away by the rosy tint to his cheeks, gaining a little courage he added, "and quite frankly I think that your suits compliment your figure attractively."
Mycroft looked as though he was about to comment, but their waiter appeared to clear their plates, and replace them with their main course. It was even better than the entrée; the lamb was so tender that it seemed to melt in Greg's mouth, his eyes slid closed and a tiny groan escaped his throat, that's how incredible it was.
When he opened his eyes, Mycroft was staring at him, but Greg couldn't quite make out the expression on his face, "I assume you come here often, and I don't blame you; the food is bloody mouth-watering."
Mycroft smiled, "Wait until dessert, the pastry chef is a master at creating dishes that look like one thing but are something else entirely when you eat it."
"I don't think I've ever been so keen for dessert in my life," Greg laughed. Despite the evening's rocky start, Greg was actually enjoying himself, and finding that there was more to Mycroft than just the cold disinterested exterior.
"I must admit that I don't exactly know what a person is supposed to talk about on a date," Mycroft confessed during a lull.
"Look, I've been out of the game almost as long as you, so I'm not really up to scratch either, but I can tell you that it's not going badly," Greg assured him with a smile.
"I suppose it will get easier the more times we do this," Mycroft stated, again arranging his cutlery on his plate.
Greg's eyes shot up to meet the other man's, "Are you asking me on another date Mycroft?" his heart was suddenly beating twice as fast.
"I have calculated that you are seventy three percent likely to agree to going out with me again, and the only way to know for sure is to ask."
Greg cracked a smile, "You know Mycroft, I think that I 
 very much like to see you again."
The waiter came back to the table to clear their dishes once more, and then the pastry chef himself brought their dessert (to share) to the table. Greg eagerly observed dish, which looked as though someone had gathered up some sticks, leaves, and white berries and arranged them artistically on a plate.
"Mr Holmes, wonderful to see you again. This dish is going to be featured in my Christmas dessert menu next month, however I thought that you would like try it early," the pastry chef announced.
"How kind of you Pablo, don't tell me what it is, you know I enjoy the surprise," Mycroft had lit up like a kid in a candy store.
"Of course Mr Holmes, I'll leave you to it."
"Alright, I'm intrigued," Greg stated once the chef had left.
"Hmm, mistletoe, how appropriate," Mycroft commented without raising his eyes from the plate, "make sure to eat every component separately and together, both experiences are entirely different."
Greg followed Mycroft's advice, and he was not disappointed, the whole dish was an experience from another world, "Oh my god, I think that was the most incredible thing I've ever eaten in my life."
"Pablo has certainly outdone himself," Mycroft agreed, wiping his mouth on his cloth napkin.
For the first time Greg took notice of the shape of Mycroft's lips, the pale colour, the way they moved when he spoke, and suddenly Greg found himself wondering what they tasted like too.
Sadly the DI realised that dessert was the end of their night, and Mycroft soon led them back to the street below, where a black car was waiting.
"Can I offer you a lift home?"
"Uh," Greg fiddled with the button on his cuff, "yeah sure, thank you."
Mycroft gestured for Greg to enter first, and then the oldest Holmes sidled in after him. Soon the car pulled off from the curb and Greg gave the driver the address of his flat. It wasn't too far away, but far enough that he certainly couldn't walk it.
There was silence while Mycroft checked an important work message, and then he asked, "Does Friday evening work for you?"
"Oh, um, yeah, I mean John and I usually go to the pub for a pint on a Friday, but I think he's got something going on with Harry this Friday anyway. What time?" Greg queried, seeing that they were coming up to his block.
"I'll pick you up at seven, I shall endeavour not to be late this time, my apologies again. One can never predict these things."
"It's fine, I had a nice time Mycroft, thank you," Greg smiled as the car pulled up, "and I'll certainly never forget that dessert."
"As did I, it was quite something," Mycroft commented.
Greg noticed Mycroft's eyes dart to his mouth in the dim car light, and realised that sometime during the evening they had both had the same thought. Greg leaned in slightly, and Mycroft mimicked him, so Greg moved in closer until they were barely an inch from each other's faces.
"I wasn't certain I read your body language correctly, but you obviously read mine," Mycroft admitted quietly.
Greg smiled softly and then closed the distance between them for a brief kiss with one arm on the back rest for support. He pulled back to the previous distance, his eyes questioning.
Mycroft stared back at him for a long moment looking as though he wanted to say something, but decided that his mouth could say what his words couldn't. He pressed his lips against Greg's again, and the DI responded instantly, kissing back greedily.
When they finally managed to pull apart, Mycroft's lips had filled with colour, and Greg smirked as he got out of the car.
He turned back through the door and with met with another brief kiss, "Seven on Friday," he confirmed.
Mycroft nodded with a grin, "If not before…"
