"Coffin. Problem: someone is about to die. It will be—as I understand it—a tragedy."
The experiments that Eurus Holmes was putting them through left Sherlock Holmes, John Watson, and Mycroft Holmes exhausted and shocked, and apparently they were far from being released from torture. The three of them anxiously watched the room they were in, trying to picture what was to come.
"So many days not lived, so many words unsaid..."
(...)
Sherlock was in shock to discover that his sister involved his friend on her evil plot. He tried to keep calm while Eurus made the call that could, or not, save Molly Hooper's life in just 3 minutes. To the dismay of those present in the room, watching the images of the woman's house on the monitor, she ignored it until it went to voicemail.
The detective couldn't understand why his friend was ignoring him. It wasn't usual for her to do something like that with him. Eurus gave one more chance and dialled Molly's number again. They experience pure agony until the woman finally answered. Sherlock needed to work fast, as the minutes were rushing out.
"Molly, please, without asking why, just say these words."
"What words?" she asked, curious to find out what her friend wanted.
"I love you."
Molly's smile disappeared from her face, and she took the phone from the ear. Her thumb slid towards the screen, apparently intending to end the call. Sherlock couldn't understand her resistance to follow that instruction, in his perception, so simple.
"Leave me alone." The tone of her voice made it clear her bitterness.
"Molly, no, please, no, don't hang up! Do not hang up!" Sherlock said a little louder, getting scared at his inability to handle the situation.
"Calmly, Sherlock, or I will finish her right now," Eurus warned.
The countdown reached 1min 08s and Molly put the phone back to her ear.
"Why are you doing this to me? Why are you making fun of me?"
"Please, I swear, you just have to listen to me."
"Softer, Sherlock!" Eurus instructed.
The man looked at the speakers before turning his attention back to the screen, trying to speak in a milder tone.
"Molly, this is for a case. It's... it's a sort of experiment."
"I'm not an experiment, Sherlock."
His eyes widened in panic as he realised his poor choice of words.
"No, I know you're not an experiment. You're my friend. We're friends. But ... please. Just ... say those words for me."
"Please don't do this. Just ... just ... don't do it." The pain Molly was feeling became more and more clear in her expression.
"It's very important. I can't say why, but I promise you it is." Sherlock forced a smile.
"I can't say that." She made a slight pause. "I can't ... I can't say that to you."
"Of course you can." He kept smiling to make his voice sound friendlier. "Why can't you?"
"You know why."
"No, I don't know why," his smile faded at the riddle he couldn't solve.
Molly sighed, sniffled, and ran a hand over her nose.
"Of course you do."
The lights in the room turned red and the image in shades of the same colour of Jim Moriarty appeared on the screen. Sherlock squeezed his eyes shut and bent his head. The lights turned white again, and the man closed his eyes for a few moments after raising his head again.
"Please, just say it," Sherlock begged, as he blinked his eyes rapidly, showing his desperation.
"I can't." She sighed. "Not to you."
"Why?"
"You're the famous consulting detective Sherlock Holmes," she stated in an angry tone of voice. "Figure it out for yourself!" she hissed before ending the call.
The room remained in silence, something very different from what happened in Molly's neighbourhood, where a loud blast alarmed everyone nearby. Just like the bomb in 221B, the explosives were not enough to ruin the structure of the house, but it was not possible to say the same about the woman.
John and Mycroft stayed still, not knowing what to do about Sherlock, who was standing, but seemed to have stopped breathing. The images on the monitor in front of them showed no information about Molly.
Only the de-tuned TV images occupied the 3 rectangles that were broadcasting directly from her house, and in the fourth square of the screen was the timer with nothing but zeroes. It was not possible to tell if she was dead or alive, almost the same to be deduced about Sherlock.
"Well, slightly unexpected, but not far away from the possibilities I calculated," said Eurus with no emotion in her voice appearing on the screen. "Now, please, pull yourself together. I need you at peak efficiency. The next one isn't going to be so easy." A door slid open, revealing another room, into which Mycroft turned himself. "In your own time, but if you hurry, you may say goodbye to her."
"Is she alive?" asked Sherlock, suddenly awakening from a daze, with tears streaming down his face.
"Look what you did to her. Look what you did to yourself, all those complicated little emotions, I lost count." Eurus' tone of voice showing that what she was witnessing didn't surprise her. "Emotional context, it destroys you, every time."
"Molly survived the explosion?" Sherlock shouted angrily at his sister.
Eurus ignored the question, the monitor switched off and the painful silence took over once again.
"Sherlock," John called out, knowing how much his friend needed help at that moment.
"No, no, no!" The tone of his voice began as a whisper and rose to a desperate cry.
"Look, maybe she's alive," cogitated his friend, as trapped in that place they couldn't do much for Molly. "Depending on where they placed the explosives, it might have been like in Baker Street. After all, it was Eurus..."
A visceral cry from Sherlock, defeated by anger, interrupted the speech. The man picked up the lid of the coffin, leaning against the wall and placed it on top of it before slamming his arms over the set with all his strength amplified by the pain and rage.
As he screamed, pieces of wood flew everywhere. John and Mycroft could do nothing but move out of the way to avoid being hit. Finally, with a large piece of what it left of the coffin, Sherlock hit the monitor, shattering it into tiny squares of dark glass.
Physically and psychologically exhausted, the man walked to a spot with less debris and dropped his body to the floor, with his back leaning against the wall.
The room was once again completely silent for a few minutes.
"Look," John said in a soft tone. "I know this is difficult and I know you're being tortured, but you have got to keep it together."
"This isn't torture; this is vivisection." Sherlock was breathing audibly, visibly exhausted after his fit of rage. "We're experiencing science from the perspective of lab rats."
He lifted his head and propped it against the wall behind him before looking up. Her brother's reaction was making Mycroft worried, but he didn't know what to do. John stopped, standing in front of his friend.
"Soldiers?" Sherlock asked.
"Soldiers," John replied, nodding in agreement.
John held out his hand to him, who accepted the help to stand up and proceeded, utterly devastated, to the next room.
The chaos had ensued in Molly's neighbourhood. The firefighters arrived first and, as soon as Greg Lestrade heard about what had happened and where, he rushed to the location to be updated on the facts.
He arrived as paramedics were rescuing the woman from the semi-destroyed house on a stretcher and what Detective Inspector could see was enough to alarm him. His reaction, after finding out where they were taking her, was to start the investigations himself and try to contact Sherlock Holmes.
The task was hard, and realising the magnitude and implications of what had happened, Greg took the reins of the case and helped as best he could in gratitude for years of friendship and all the help Sherlock had already given him.
As well as taking charge of the safe transport of his sister back to Sherrinford prison, helping Mycroft as his own friend requested, he informed Molly's condition to the man who immediately wanted to know which hospital they had taken her to.
Sherlock felt his heart beat much faster than normal to know that Molly was still alive and not even Greg's info on the woman's conditions when the paramedics rescued her from the debris, took away his hope that everything would end well.
John, even though with wet clothes, ignored the detail in order to follow his friend to the hospital. He did not share these good feelings, because of his years of experience in medicine warning how the cases in such conditions were unstable and critical.
As soon as they arrived and introduced themselves, identifying who they were, the two men received the directions to find an anteroom from where they could see Molly through a glass window built into the upper half of the wall, isolating the patient from the outside environment. John had expected what he saw, but Sherlock was in shock.
The woman was lying in bed in dorsal decubitus, covered only by a white hospital gown that contrasted with her skin, previously pale, but now with areas of red to brown tones because of injuries. Some of them required extra care to heal and needed to be wrapped in synthetic fabric bandages.
It was the situation of her both hands and the right side of Molly's neck near the ear. To make matters worse, besides the various devices connected to monitor her vital conditions, it was necessary to intubate and sedate her.
Sherlock stared at the woman so absorbed that didn't even realise he was alone. Only when he saw John walking towards him he realises his friend was absent, probably in search of more precise information about Molly's health condition. Unfortunately, the expression on doctor's face wasn't encouraging.
"She has first and second-degree burns all over her body and a third degree one on her left forearm near her wrist," John informed Sherlock, who could no longer hold his silent tears. "Apparently the jumper she was wearing melted in some parts and the nurses had to rub the skin at those points, so there are injuries by abrasion on both arms and her back. The intense heat in a closed environment caused inhalation lesions," he continued. "That's why they intubated her."
"It's my fault..." Sherlock whimpered without losing eye contact with the motionless Molly on the bed.
"No, Sherlock. It's Eurus's fault."
"It's my fault." He pleaded for support with his persuasive gaze.
"Hey, don't do this to yourself," John gave a comforting squeeze on her left shoulder.
"Is there any way I can get closer?" he asked, begging for a positive answer.
"I don't know..." John regretted having to say that as he saw the pain on his friend's face. "But I'll see what I can do."
The doctor disappeared for a few minutes that seemed like an eternity to Sherlock. He wanted to walk into that room and swap places with his friend. Molly didn't deserve to be going through all this, especially after he had promised, a while ago, to do everything possible to guarantee her happiness. It was painful to fail with a vow for a second time, even though he had kept it secret.
"You have ten minutes," John said, returning to his friend, holding a few items in varying shades of blue in his arms. "You need to put these on. The most severe burns predispose to infection that can spread through the body if bacteria get into her bloodstream."
Wasting no minute thinking or trying to bargain for more time, Sherlock immediately took off his Belstaff and suit coat to put on the items which he soon realised was a Personal Protective Equipment kit. Besides the blue long sleeve disposable gown, there was a bouffant cap, shoe covers and an FFP2 mask.
"Clean your hands with alcohol," John said, pointing to the device attached to the wall.
Sherlock repeated the hygiene procedure twice before passing through the door opened by his friend so that he would avoid touching the surfaces, contaminating his hands.
Still shaken by the horrors caused by his sister vivid in his memory, the man walked slowly through the trauma and burned intensive care unit so silent that, apart from the noise emitted by the machines monitoring Molly's vital signs, Sherlock could hear his own heart beating within his chest. A painful frequency that hammered his ribs almost as if the organ was begging to be ripped out of there.
He kept a distance of a few inches from his friend's body as he approached from the right side of the bed to prevent his tears, still silent but uncontrollable, from falling onto her skin.
Suddenly, a loud sob made John involuntarily walk a few steps towards the door of the room, fearing the possibility that his friend might not have the strength to support his own body and collapse. The movement caught Sherlock's attention, who turned his face towards the large window and noticed through the glass that John was also crying.
Despite his desire to touch Molly, the fear of hurting her overwhelmed him, making the man look as fragile as a small child. Not knowing how to proceed, Sherlock reacted in the way he was used to, and looked at John for the answer. He nodded, encouraging him to do what he wanted.
As he held out his right hand towards Molly, he realised how the nervous trembling had taken hold of his body. It wasn't just the guilt over what had happened and the fear of losing the woman who had always been there for him since they first met. The sensations he had experienced in the last few hours since he had finally realised the true meaning of his love for Molly surprised Sherlock.
The first contact with the delicate, wounded skin was as gentle as the man could manage, even though he struggled to control his own movements. Only Sherlock's fingertips reached the back of Molly's right hand that didn't react to the contact. Not even her heartbeat changed from what the man could tell on the monitor in front of him. It was as if only her body was there.
"
"
This quote resonated in Sherlock's mind, making him feel a shiver as he recalled Jim Moriarty's original plan. First, John wrapped up with the explosives, now the same mischief at Molly's house. It wasn't his sister's idea.
The man believed that the criminal consultant, as he called himself, had suggested it specifically to hurt him. If Sherlock had claimed in the past that he didn't have a heart in his chest, all he wanted most at the moment was literally to get it ripped out, such was the pain he felt.
"Molly, please don't give up," he whispered.
(...)
Sherlock didn't miss a day in his visits to his friend, and that ten-minute ritual repeated for the next few weeks as life on Baker Street tried to return to normal with the restoration work on 221B. Most of the time the man went alone, but on some days John joined him and even Mycroft paid Molly a visit once.
However, only Sherlock had the permission to go inside the TBICU room. Only he spent ten minutes holding Molly's hand, asking her not to give up fighting for her life.
They were always many of the same days, but every little improvement filled him with hope. Like the morning when he arrived, and found out that his friend no longer needed the tubes to breathe. 
 petite pathologist was fighting bravely despite not yet noticing his presence near her.
But it would only be a matter of time, Sherlock thought.
John was optimistic, even though he knew there would be a long road of recovery ahead for his friend regained her independence.
The nurses in charge of her care were optimistic and assured her that with a few rehabilitation exercises, Molly would have her autonomy back and be able to perform her professional duties the same way as before.
"She is the best pathologist I know," Sherlock announced excitedly during one of his visits.
There was no reason to think otherwise.
And he was right.
However, when Molly finally opened her eyes for the first time, Sherlock was not present. It was a bit after 1PM when the woman felt a burning sensation with the air entering her nostrils and descending to her lungs that slowly expanded with the presence of the gas before her diaphragm relax to expel it.
The deep sigh followed by a moaning reached the nurse's ears, making her put a huge smile from behind Face Shield so that a cheerful face was the first thing the woman would see.
Molly opened her eyes slowly to get used to the bright room, trying to figure out where she was. Her heartbeat quickened when she found nothing familiar.
"You're in the hospital, sweetheart. The explosion that happened in your house has left you seriously injured, but you're recovering well."
"When?" Her voice was very hoarse, both from lack of use as the slow recovery from the damage to her larynx.
"It's about to be four weeks," the nurse said, aware of how distressed Molly would be by that answer. "But your boyfriend hasn't failed to come here for a single day," she added so that the woman could be sure that someone who loved her had been there the whole time.
"Boyfriend?" Molly asked, unsure.
"Yeah, a tall man with dark curly hair..."
"Sherlock" the name came out a little louder than a whisper.
"That's his name," the nurse agreed. "He came here this morning and I'm sure he'll be back tomorrow. I bet he'll be happy to find you awake!"
That bewildered Molly about what to feel. With an effort, she remembered that her last interaction with her friend hadn't been pleasant. She couldn't believe that Sherlock could conduct a bomb experiment in her house, but she couldn't understand what had happened.
Why the phone call? And the request. Why play with her feelings like that? And put her life at risk. Everything was nonsense. She wanted to ask him, but; the sorrow was like an invisible hand compressing her heart and urging her to stay away from him.
A few hours later, after the doctor examined her carefully, Molly got the permission to sit up for a few minutes on the bed with the help of a nurse. The first thing she noticed was that her head seemed lighter, and the reason was soon clear. Her hair no longer fell over her shoulders and back. They've cut it so short that the woman couldn't touch it.
"Do you have a mirror?" she asked in a low voice.
The nurse smiled and met the woman's request, holding the object with a blue plastic frame in front of her.
Molly couldn't hold back her tears as she saw not only the careless haircut but also the red marks on her face and a large bandage that went from the base of her jaw, near her ear, wrapped around the right side of her neck.
Her arms weren't much better, and both hands needed to be wrapped with bandages, the largest on her entire left forearm up to the elbow.
"This is all transitory, dear. Focus on what won't pass," the nurse said. "It's true love what I saw in his eyes."
"I still don't know your name," Molly said.
"Florence," the woman answered with a smile.
"Florence," she repeated. "I don't know if I should pin my hopes on this."
This made the nurse realise that there was a long history between the two of them and not everything had been a bed of roses.
"If I may give you some advice?" she asked.
Molly agreed with a nod.
"Give him at least a chance to explain himself, or you'll forever regret that you didn't."
With a simple smile, she thanked her for the advice, realising that this was not only something she could do, but something she wanted to do. She would never find peace again if she didn't hear from Sherlock's mouth the reason she almost died after that phone call.
In the early evening, with the discharged from TBICU, Molly moved to a regular room still in the hospital's burn unit. When Sherlock arrived the next day for his usual ten-minute visit, he almost couldn't contain the urge to hop on the corridor when he received the information that his friend had woken up and was in a regular room.
Not only for the extra time he could stay with her, but finally Sherlock could hear Molly's voice, something that hadn't happened since the tragic day of the vivisection conducted by his sister when he thought he would lose her forever.
The realisation of that fact brought a new feeling to the man. He was in fear imaging what his friend remembered. She might never want to see him again, and Sherlock loved her enough to provide that, if it was her wish. Even with all the pain, the rupture would cause him.
His excitement had reduced drastically when the man put his hand on the door handle of the room occupied by Molly.
The dim light of the place contrasted with that of the TBICU probably, he thought, to be more comfortable after so many days under intense lighting. The woman was lying on one of the three available beds, with her back to the entrance. Not knowing if she was asleep, Sherlock closed the door and walked inside the room, making as little noise as possible.
Molly become conscious of the presence of the man she knew so well and her brain confirmed it by showing many moments of them together.
The detective's footsteps entering the hospital's lab with the most variety of requests, including one to fake his own death. Sherlock scent from the times he had used her home as a bolthole, sheltering on her sheets when she gave up her own bed to him. His normal breathing cut off by short, dry gasps when he was in trouble or in doubt and requested her help. All this was always alive in her mind.
"Why did you do this to me, Sherlock?" she asked, cutting to the chase without looking at her friend.
The question hit the man in the chest as painfully as a stab, causing him to stop his approach and stand where he was, halfway to the bed.
"Molly, please," he whispered. "Let me explain."
With some difficulty because of the pain, which wasn't intense enough to increase her painkiller, but was, at least, bothersome, Molly turned over in bed and faced Sherlock, keeping most of her body hidden by the thin blanket. The two of them stared at each other for a few moments and the anger in the woman's gaze was in complete contrast to the man's remorse.
"All right," she declared. "I'm hearing you."
Sherlock took a chair he found near the wall, brought it close to the bed to sit down, and narrated everything that had happened even before the experiments at Sherrinford. From the explosion in Baker Street, the tests driven by his sister and, with as much detail as he could remember, the room with the coffin, the reason the two of them were talking in that hospital room.
Molly listened to everything attentively without interrupting, her heart recognising his sincerity in every word. Including when Sherlock stated he would rather die than hurt her, but he had no choice. The trio had no chance of getting help trapped and unreachable on that island.
"So you have a sister," the woman stated when he finished speaking.
"It would seem so," the man said with a timid smile before running his fingers over the tears that had streamed down his face during the explanation. "I mean, I'm sure I do, and I have already visited her in prison already. My parents didn't know she was alive either."
"The trauma she caused you in childhood, disappearing with your best friend," she preferred not to mention aloud the death of Victor Trevor, even though she understood the little boy's fate. "Erased her existence from your mind."
Molly was more peaceful now that she knew the whole truth. Despite her friend's involvement, it wasn't his guilt over what had happened, and she was sure he would have avoided it if he could.
"But Eurus didn't do it because she wanted to either, I mean," the choosing words to talk about his sister bewildered Sherlock. "She wanted to do it, but only because her brain doesn't work properly. So I forgave her."
"Very kind of you," Molly praised. "It will be easier to get on with your life without this burden."
"And you? Forgive me?" he asked apprehensively.
The woman had already taken a breath to answer when a nurse, after knocking three times on the door, entered the room carrying a tray, interrupting their conversation.
"I've brought your lunch, dear," she announced. "Do you think you can hold the spoon or do you need some help?"
"Please, don't bother," Sherlock stood up and took the small disposable plastic bowl covered by a paper napkin and a spoon from the tray.
"The juice," the nurse smiled as she placed the plastic cup with a straw on the bedside table on the right side of the bed before turning to leave.
"Thank you," Molly replied, smiling at the woman before she closed the door.
"I think you'd better sit down," Sherlock suggested. "Do you need any help?" he asked, leaving the bowl next to the plastic cup of juice and holding her elbows with both hands.
His strength added to her lightness made it easy for the woman slide up and sit down with little effort. With that most appropriate position, Molly turned her body to the right to get the bowl, but the man was faster.
"Sherlock, give me that!" she asked.
"Nope" a snapping sound came from his lips as he pulled the chair closer to the bed. "Open your mouth" Sherlock filled his spoon with what looked like mashed potatoes and apparently was to be his friend's lunch. "Come on, don't be childish" he complained as he saw Molly with her lips hard-pressed against each other. "Do you think I don't know you've done this for me before?"
The question surprised the woman. She had already taken care of her friend that way, but she didn't expect him to remember it because of his overdose numbness.
"Look, I don't doubt that you can feed yourself," he explained. "But you have injured and sensitive hands, so allow me to spare you this pain..."
She finally smiled before opening her mouth and letting Sherlock place the spoon with of food on her tongue.
"I presume you need to swallow it slow," he said as the pain expression appeared on her face.
Molly nodded in agreement.
The process then proceeded slowly, but the man couldn't be happier, even though the interruption had let his question unanswered. Sherlock needed to hear from Molly if she forgives him or not for what had happened.
When he finished with the mashed potatoes, he offered her the juice, and waited patiently, holding the plastic cup while his friend drank the liquid through a straw. When the small meal was over, the man took the napkin and cleaned delicately her lips.
"You're going to be hungry soon," he complained, looking at the empty containers.
"To be honest, I don't know how I ate so much." She pulled back the blanket and slid onto the bed, groaning as she felt the pain from the wounds on her back.
"Forgive me," he asked before placing his right hand on the left side of Molly's face. "You don't deserve to go through any of this."
"It wasn't your fault, Sherlock." The woman's voice sounded sweet. "But if you need my forgiveness for not being able to prevent what happened, then I forgive you."
The man thanked, smiling as he closed his eyes for a few seconds. "I have, even if indirectly, responsibility for what happened and I will take care of you until you fully recover," he stated.
"You don't have to," Molly assured him. "I also have a share of guilt in this."
"What do you mean?" he asked, taken aback, without taking his hand from her face as he stroked her short hair over her ear with his fingertips.
"Isn't it obvious? If I had said what you asked me to, my house wouldn't have been blown up." Molly used the passive voice to avoid naming the person responsible for the explosion.
Sherlock was not so sure of that after meeting his sister in person and seeing the horrors of which Eurus was capable of, feeling no remorse. However, he deeply admired the logic of Molly's analysis, as trivial to her as it was to him. That was why he liked her so much, or more accurately, love her. Few people with a reasoning like him could be such pleasant company at the same time.
"But I want to," he said. "To keep taking care of you."
Molly placed her right hand over Sherlock's one and caressed the back of it with a gentle circular movement of her thumb.
"Now do you understand why I couldn't say that to you?" her tone of voice was soft, showing more curiosity than judgement.
Yes, he had comprehended, but before he could answer, Molly spoke again. "Because..." she choked, trying to hold back the unexpected tears. "Because it's true. It's always been true."
"Yes, now I understand," he said calmly in his baritone tone of voice. "And I'm astonished I didn't realise it earlier." The man smiled. "Only when I thought I was going to lose you, and imagined my life without your companionship, I finally understood."
The two looked at each other in silence for a few moments, assimilating what they were sharing.
Molly felt enamoured by the detective from the first time she saw him, and that enchantment gradually grow into a love she hadn't expected to feel for someone.
While Sherlock, more wounded by the emotional traumas suffered in childhood than he was aware of, found in that pathologist the support that slowly but surely turned into a feeling that, until then, he thought was a dangerous disadvantage.
"I love you," admitted Sherlock with the same certainty as when he was making his deductions.
"I love you," confessed Molly, who had long wanted to make that statement.
They smiled at each other and waiting no extra minute, Sherlock leaned towards his beloved and touched Molly's lips gently with his own. She reciprocated the gesture and enjoyed as best she could, and her injuries allowed the moment she had been waiting for a long time.
: The inspiration for this AU came while I was writing my long fanfic that follows the canon of the series and starts after season four. In 
 (only available in Portuguese), Sherlock realises he loves Molly and ponders on whether he should give himself up to the feeling or not, for fear of putting her life at risk by turning the woman into a target for whoever wants to get to him. During one of his deliberations, as a companion for his friend Audrey Morgan in the hospital (from ch. 53 to 74), he remembered what they suffered in Eurus' hands. In both the series and my long fanfic, Molly attends to Sherlock's request during the call. But what if she hadn't? What if, in fact, there were explosives in her house? He only mentions these questions in the following book (wip- still untitled) in a conversation with John, but it stimulated my imagination to write this oneshot (?).
