Molly fiddles with her hands as she waits at the restaurant. Her date is already twenty minutes late and she's beginning to wonder if he had stood her up. Just as she is about to give up, she sighs and stands, stepping out of the booth when a hand lands on her shoulder.
Looking up, she sees the beautiful man before her just as she had remembered him from the hospital. Wispy dark hair and sparkling green eyes, some light scruff, and an amused but kind smirk on his face. She had seen him outside of the emergency department when she had gone to retrieve a poor soul who had passed away from their injuries from a car wreck. He had been waiting in the hallway with a broken foot from a work injury. He told her that he was a construction worker.
"God I am so sorry; I hope you weren't leaving. I took a short nap, and I mustn't have heard my alarm. I woke up and I panicked and got here as fast as I could with this thing", he explains, motioning to the boot on his foot.
Molly smiles sweetly and slowly sits back down in the booth. "You got me nervous that you weren't coming."
"I know, and I would have texted you, but I had forgotten to get your number the other day."
"Oh, damn. I forgot too, actually", she giggles softly, exchanging numbers with him quickly, as the waitress fills their glasses with water and hands them menus.
"So, Jason", she smiles. "How was your day other than this small blunder?"
He laughs and sips his water. "Tiring. But that's the job. Manual labor isn't for everyone."
"I expect not", Molly chuckles.
"What about you? How was your day? It was quite odd bumping into you the other day as you were rolling a body out, and yet being able to hold a friendly conversation with it under a sheet. That was quite impressive to me."
She laughs lightheartedly. "Impressive? Most would run the moment they knew my profession. In fact, it's the most popular reason as to why I am single."
"I think it's cool, it doesn't scare me away. The dead must be respected."
Molly beams and nods. "Exactly. Someone has to do it."
They both order entrees and engage in light conversation. Molly has a genuinely enjoyable time and can't stop smiling.
They mutually agree to order dessert to elongate their evening, when suddenly she sees Sherlock enter the restaurant and catch her eye, making a beeline for her, Lestrade and other officers close on his tail.
She can't help a gasp from escaping her lips, and as it does, Jason turns to see the offending troops. His entire demeanor changes and he growls angrily, pulling two guns from his waistband and aiming one at Molly, and the other at Sherlock.
Molly immediately freezes and her eyes flicker to Sherlock's in a panic. His jaw is set hard, and he is holding a gun to Jason.
Jason bark at him angrily. "Put your gun down or she's dead. I'm serious!"
Molly notices that Sherlock's expression falters for fraction of a second, before he lowers his gun slowly.
Suddenly the room seems to go in slow motion. Sherlock then pretends to nearly drop his gun, and Jason's eyes go to Sherlock's 'slippery' hand out of reflex. Lestrade raises his gun just as Jason looks back up, dropping the gun that was previously trained on Sherlock as Lestrade pulls his trigger. Jason is hit right in the heart, dropping to the ground like lead.
Unfortunately for Molly, the second he saw the motion of Lestrade's hand, he had pulled his own trigger, of the gun he had trained on her.
Though it wasn't a good thing that she was shot, at least the bullet had gone through the middle of her chest when his hands had faltered at the realization he was going to get shot, and not through her neck as he had it aimed previously. She had a better chance of survival this way, her mind reminds her before her body shut down.
She gasps and looks down at the gaping hole in her chest, a spot of blood on her blouse before her body betrays her, and she falls back. This is when the room seemingly speeds up again. The customers scream and run out the door. Molly can hear Sherlock screaming her name and the warmth of his arms around her as she tries to keep her eyes open. However, her vision blurs and the world goes dark.
"Molly! Get an ambulance NOW!" Sherlock roars angrily at the other officers. Greg rushes over, completely distraught and Sherlock gives him a death glare. "You stay away from her."
"Sherlock y-you know he had to be taken out. There was no way to know that h-he had pulled the trigger until it was too late. He could've hurt so many people including you."
"I don't care! I don't care about me or them, I care about her. Get the paramedics over here NOW, Lestrade!"
"They're on their way, Sherlock."
Sherlock can feel his entire being trembling as he holds Molly's smaller form in his arms, blood trickling out of the bullet wound. Her skin is sweating and clammy and shaking, the beginning stages of shock.
"It's okay...it's okay. It will be alright. Stay with me, Molly. The first fucking ambulance is going to her, not him. I don't give a shit what protocol says for arrestees."
Lestrade backs off and takes the pulse of the other man. "He's deceased, so yes, she is."
The ambulance pulls up with lights and sirens, and paramedics rush in with a cot. Sherlock carefully places her on it and breathes heavily. "I'm going with her."
One of the EMTs looks at him. "Are you family?"
"Yes", he growls and follows them out to the ambulance. Greg doesn't correct him, knowing he'd only catch more hell if he did.
.
.
Sherlock rubs his eyes as he looks up at the clock in Molly's hospital room. He's been awake for almost two days straight; save for that small nap he took when he dozed off earlier. When they had brought Molly in the previous night, they had rushed her into surgery to get the bullet out, which had lodged in her sternum, and luckily had not done damage to any organs or her spine. She has been resting for almost 24 hours now but had yet to wake up. Until this very moment.
Small groans come from Molly's form as she moves slightly within her cot. Sherlock immediately flies over to her bedside.
"Molly?", he murmurs. "Molly...hi."
Her eyes open slightly and squint as the bright LED hospital lights beam into her warm brown eyes. She focuses her gaze for a moment before looking over at him in confusion.
"Sh-Sherlock?", she mutters, her voice raspy and her throat dry.
"I'm here, you're alright. You just need some time to heal. Everything will be okay."
"Wh-..." Just as she is about to ask him what happened, it all comes rushing back to her. Her date. The restaurant. The ambush. The shooting. She got shot!
"Oh my God", she groans. "He shot me…"
"Yes. I am so sorry, Lestrade is a bloody idiot. Shouldn't have acted so quickly, I'm sure there were other ways if I had had the chance to assess."
Molly shakes her head weakly. "I knew you were trouble the moment you came through those doors...you always somehow ruin my dates", she lightly jabs jokingly. "Can I have some water?"
He bites his lip a bit and nods, pouring her a cup and carefully helping her sip it. "I'm sorry again."
"I don't understand. Why...why the ambush? He seemed so nice", she whispers defeatedly.
"Long story short, he was a hitman hired by a terror organization that I had been involved with tracking, with Mycroft's partial assistance. I suppose part one of taking down the monarch is killing me as a trophy first?", he jokes.
"Not funny", she grunts.
"A little funny."
"Then-"
"Because of Moriarty."
Molly tries to sit up and gasped in pain, her hand flying to the gauze on her chest.
"Don't move, you'll pull the stitches."
"He's been dead for years, and you took down his network."
"Yes, but it turns out that he had tipped off several other organizations and individuals, my sister clearly included", he states, agony flickering behind his bright eyes. "Apparently he had told them that he got close to me by going through you."
She tears up a bit and wrings her hands. "So I'm a guinea pig for crime organizations and all I wanted to do was go on a date so that I don't have to be fucking alone for the rest of my miserable life. Great...so now I have no chance because I'll keep second-guessing if every single guy I fall comfortable with is really a crime lord in disguise, wanting to kill me to get to you."
Sherlock looks at her guiltily, then down at the floor tiles, suddenly finding them interesting. "I am sorry. You won't be alone Molly. I promise you", he laments.
"It's not you that I'm upset at, Sherlock. I swear. I just wish these people would stop being so...evil. So...criminally insane."
He smiles weakly and looks at her. "I suppose then I would be out of a job, but I wouldn't be putting you in harm's way anymore."
Her eyes meet his, full of sorrow and raw emotion that she knows only she is allowed to see as often as she does. "You look...scared. Is the threat still looming?"
"No. Fortunately he was the ringleader, his weakness was superiority and having to do everything himself. With him taken down, I doubt that the others would attempt or follow his lead."
"Then why are you so worried?"
He looks at her, a bit surprised. "Molly, does it still shock you that I care? I know I'm not a terribly outward man, but you're my friend. More than. 'Friend', just sounds too casual for whatever we are."
"I'm fine, Sherlock."
"For now. I saw you fall; I saw you /bleed/. I never...for a minute it didn't feel like you were breathing anymore, and I-", he takes a deep breath, hesitating. "I thought that your association with me had finally killed you. That I was putting you right in a coffin for getting too close and caring about you like Eurus insinuated I would. I couldn't handle that."
"It didn't and I'm here. Relatively unscathed. It's okay now, Sherlock."
"I don't ever want to lose you, and especially not before you know."
"Know? Know what?"
Sherlock swallows hard. "Know this", he murmurs and cups her face, tilting it up and he kisses her slowly and passionately.
After a moment he pulls away and stares into her eyes. She stare right back, a dazed expression of awe and surprise on her face. "Wh-what...I-...you-", she tries to begin, but splutters.
Blushing, he leans down again and pecks her lips. "I know I've said it before, but I know you didn't believe me, and I the moment it was wrong." He looks right at herm no screen separating them this time as he declares it.
"I love you, Molly Hooper."
Molly's eyes well with tears.
"Whatever that means for me, and where we go from here is anyone's guess. But it was true...it's always been true", he smiles softly.
Molly cries lightly and opens her arms, Sherlock eagerly but gently hugging her close.
"So where do we go from here? I couldn't let you go without letting you know that I had meant it."
Molly sniffles and wipes her eyes with the back of her hand. "I don't know, but wherever we go from here, we will figure it out together. Plus, if we don't I know you'll just keep sabotaging my dates", she giggles softly.
He blushes and smirks, shrugging nonchalantly. "I suppose it was absentmindedly on purpose."
She rolls her eyes and lies back on the pillow, her stitches aching. "Well, you don't have to worry, if you want me, from now on I'm yours."
"Yes, mine", he murmurs.
Molly Hooper was finally his, and he couldn't be more relieved.
