: I rearranged the dialogues and add some narrative parts, but I imagine it's still possible to figure out from which scene each line belongs to.
Sherlock Holmes woke up that day with the desire to reveal a secret that he had been keeping for a long time. He had grown tired of making excuses, especially for himself.
"How fresh?" he asked, entering the morgue.
It hadn't been very easy to persuade Molly Hooper to accompany him, but she eventually agreed when the detective assured her he wouldn't be long.
"Just in, Sherlock" Molly was not angry, just bored with being there in that place on a Saturday morning during her day off. "Is this urgent?"
"Fine. We'll start with the riding crop." Sherlock smiled, ignoring her dismay and still building up the courage to reveal the real reason he had called the woman so early and asked for urgent help.
"Oh, God. Is this one of your stupid games?" she asked, frowning.
"No, it's not a game," he ensured.
"So, bad day, was it?" she giggled.
"It's not about that." The man realised how difficult it was to reveal. Far harder than he had imagined.
"Listen, I was wondering: maybe later, when you're finished..." Although she noticed that there was something bothering her friend, Molly ignored his nervousness. It wasn't always easy to deduce what was going on in Sherlock's mind.
"I... need you to help me." he suddenly interrupted her speech.
"Well, quickly, then. What is it? What do you want?" The woman adopted a more understanding attitude.
"Are you wearing lipstick?" he was so nervous that instead of getting straight to the point, all he could manage was a random comment.
"Leave me alone." Molly smiled, still unable to imagine what had left him like that.
"Sorry, you were saying?" Sherlock let the woman ask what she wanted, as perhaps he could use her request in his favour.
"Why are you doing this to me?" The enigmatic conversation was making Molly a little bored. It was Saturday morning of her so precious day off... "I was wondering if you'd like to have coffee." She repeated after a sigh, feeling her stomach begging for food. She had only had one cup of coffee before leaving the house.
"Black, two sugars, please." he said mockingly, but reconsidered his attitude when he saw the slightly annoyed expression on her face. "Molly, this is for a case. It's... it's a sort of experiment." The detective made use of an ability he knew like the back of his hand.
"Please don't do this. I'm not an experiment, Sherlock."
As much as she knew the way her friend's mind worked, she couldn't allow something like that.
"No, I know you're not an experiment. You're my friend. We're friends. But..." he said with confident. "What happened to the lipstick?"
"It wasn't working for me." She admitted, aware that the product should have faded as she rubbed her lips against each other impatiently with all that strange conversation.
"Really? I thought it was a big improvement." The statement came so naturally that it took Sherlock by surprise. It was just what he needed as encouragement, before his racing heart could hurt his ribs.
"Say it." invited Molly. "Go on. You say it first."
The detective wasn't the only one in that room who could observe the facts well. From his dilated pupils, the sweat at the root of his hair making the curls slightly darker, to his slightly trembling hands, were enough clues for Molly to understand what was disturbing Sherlock like that.
"I-I ... I love you." the man let the statement slip softly between his lips. Almost in a whisper.
"You bastard." She giggled for a second time that morning.
"I love you." Sherlock repeated with much more conviction than he had said the first time, advanced a few steps towards Molly and held her hands.
"I love you." She professed happily, drawing from her chest a secret—poorly hidden—but a truth she had long hoped to reveal in that way.
The next natural step would be the first kiss sealing their union as a couple, but both were aware that they would have to wait a bit more. Public and explicit displays of affection in the workplace were against St. Bartholomew's hospital policy.
: I hope fans of Molly and Sherlock enjoyed this little crossover between episode dialogues. It was only a little exercise of my creativity.
