During a case, Sherlock meets an interesting girl who has molotov cocktails in her bag and a grin on her face. He doesn't think much of her until they meet again in another case, with new information floating around her that has him bristling. John, of course, was all for saving a damsel in distress, and has a gun at hand if things go awry. By the end of the day, 221C has a new tenant, and the duo a new ward.
Canon Typical Violence, Hints of Yaoi, LGBTQ+ Themes/Characters, Murder, Death, Grey Morals, Homophobia, Transphobia, Slurs, etc.
 Someday, Season 5 will come. Until then, I lay in wait and in grief.
.
It's a normal, dull case he only took because he had nothing else to do: murder of a woman, shot to the head and two more on her stomach. Adultery, clearly. Husband shot her because she was carrying another man's baby. You could see it from the new nail polish on her fingernails and the comfortable shoes she was wearing.
Waving Lestrade's offer for a drink off, Sherlock pulled his coat closer to him to occupy his hands, nose buried in his scarf as he ruminated over tonight's dinner. John was suffering form a cold today, and thus wasn't able to accompany Sherlock in this utterly bland case. His presence would've made it bearable.
Huffing silently, he hailed a cab and waited for one to come, standing beside a teen who was busy with their phone.
Having nothing else to do, he decided on a whim to deduce them—around sixteen, judging by the scuffed edges of their sneakers; distinctively female, but held themselves like a man. Possibly transitioning? Habit from older male family members? No, an only child. Their wrist is bare save for some faint mosquito bites. Currently waiting for some friends, bag is filled with—Sherlock sniffs the air and raises an eyebrow—gasoline? Planning an arson? No, too few. An experiment then? Perhaps for school?
School is in vacation, though. Summer project? No, they're holding their phone with ease. Not a project, then. Personal fancy? Interesting. They didn't look like a scientist. Thrill-seeker, then? Like John, but juvenile and nowhere near as puzzling.
Suddenly, shots rang in the air, and Sherlock instinctively ducked behind a nearby mailbox. The teenager followed after him, fingers already punching in the Yard's number. Smart, quick reflexes too. Possibly trained in self-defense—
Rolling his eyes at the voice that sounded eerily like John's, Sherlock peeked at the street, spotting three masked men, two of which were holding guns. They looked to have come from the bank around the corner from their bulking bags. Filled with stolen cash, no doubt.
"Holy shit," the teenager whispered at his side, who was leaning on the side to have a look as well. "Those are real guns."
"Quite," Sherlock replied, mind whirling with possibilities and contingency plans. First, he needed to get this teenager in a safer place before he went and got himself into trouble, as Lestrade had aptly described in a fit of worried anger. Then, he'll need to procure a projectile to unscrew the street signs over the robbers' head. But where…?
Glancing at the teenager (peach skin, ebony hair, hazel eyes wide. Afraid, but not panicking. Good, he can't waste time calming them down), his eyes zeroed in the bottle peeking from their bag, and narrowed his gaze at it.
"Is that a molotov cocktail?" No, scratch that. It was 
a molotov cocktail. Teenage rebellion? Revenge? Not important. He needed it.
"Uh, yeah?" They shook their head, bringing their bag (pins of cartoon characters, embroidered flag with pink, yellow and blue—also, a skull keychain. Quaint) forward and unzipping it. There laid five molotov cocktails, already assembled and ready to be thrown at certain criminals. "You could use it, if you want. I have good aim, too."
"Brilliant," he remarked, taking two. Tilting his head, he calculated the average speed and distance, and 
.
Almost immediately, two of the robbers were set in fire, and Sherlock was mildly impressed at how volatile the flames were. Did they use a different kind of alcohol or gasoline?
He the the other molotov cocktail, nailing the third robber in the head, and stood up as he watched them run around headless chicken, yelling at each other to put the fire out. Idiots. Had no one taught them to tuck, drop and roll?
A giggle brought him out of his thoughts, and Sherlock looked at the side to see the teenager clutching their bag as they laughed at the, admittedly, comical scene before them. Must be the adrenaline.
"Good thing you had those in hand, isn't it?"
Averting their eyes, the teenager blushed. "I just made them on a whim, I wanted to know if it worked or if the movies were just lying to me."
"Movies."
"Yeah."
Exhaling through his nose, Sherlock gave Lestrade two minutes before the cars came and—yep, there they are. Late as always.
Lestrade rushed out of his car, clearly ruffled, and took one look at the flaming criminals, Sherlock and his companion (who gave him a cheeky wave), before turning his eyes skywards as if asking for patience.
"You two, station. I need to take your statements."
Sharing a look, Sherlock smiled at the teenager. They snorted.
.
He learned their name to be Maria Smith. A dull, ordinary name for a child who was anything but.
She had just moved three weeks ago with her parents, citing the need for a change of scenery because of her father's job, and was just on her way to a friend's house to test out the molotov cocktails she'd made to see if they worked.
"Molotov cocktails," Lestrade repeated, gaze flat. Maria grinned. Donovan shook her head in apparent amusement. "Sure, why not? Highly flammable projectiles that could start fires. And people, obviously. Nothing can go wrong."
Snickering at the detective's expression, Maria looked at Sherlock and gave him a look that said 
Sherlock gave her the look equivalent of a shrug. She sniggered some more.
Familiar footsteps then echoed outside, slumping but distinctively John-like. Oh, dear. Did Lestrade—?
"Yes, Sherlock. I called John down." Why that little…
"He's sick, Lestrade. 
. How—how did you even convince Mrs. Hudson?"
"He didn't," John piped up, leaning heavily on the doorframe. Donovan quickly ushered him to a seat, and Sherlock scanned over John for any abnormalities. Difficulty in breathing, bit flushed and sweaty. Wrapped up in five different layers despite it being March. And he should
. Bloody hell, Lestrade. "I sneaked out of the window."
"Your room is in the second floor."
John had the audacity to roll his eyes at him. "I rolled it out."
"Oh my god," Donovan sighed. "Lestrade, next time, don't call the sick soldier. You know how's he about with Sherlock."
"I hope that I won't have to." Lestrade furrowed his brows. "Now, would you mind telling John about your excursion today, Sherlock, or should I?"
John, who was in the middle of receiving a cuppa from Maria, looked alarmed and exasperated. "What did you do now, Sherlock?"
"Why do you assume I did anything?"
John gave him a Look.
Sherlock pursed his lips. "Point. But! It wasn't me this time. There were robbers—"
"—and you threw molotov cocktails at them."
"What."
"It was effective! And it wasn't even mine!"
"
Maria watched the byplay and hid a smile behind her hand. Looks like London will be fun.
.
After bidding the teenager goodbye, Sherlock bullied John into the cab and thoroughly scolded him for going out in his condition. John bore it all with a fond smile on his face that made flip-flops on Sherlock's stomach. Ugh, sentiment.
Arriving at 221B, Mrs. Hudson can be seen waiting near the porch, hands on her hips and mad.
"John Hamish Watson," she started waving a finger at the doctor. "You are in a load of trouble, young man!"
"Sorry, Mrs. Hudson. It was about Sherlock, he threw molotov cocktails at some robbers." Sherlock groaned as Mrs. Hudson gasped, distracted. "Must you start with that? You'll make people think I'm some arsonist."
"No, you're a sociopath," John teased him as Mrs. Hudson pushed him inside the flat. Shrugging off his coats, Sherlock took it for him to hang and shuffled into his chair, sinking into the cushion. "A highly-functioning sociopath. Who threw molotov cocktails at some robbers."
Growling playfully at the retired soldier, Sherlock leaned back on his own chair and clasped his fingers. "So, temperature?"
John kneaded the bridge of his nose. Mrs. Hudson came bustling in with some tea and nibbles. "Three degrees lower than before. I'm fine, Sherlock. It's just a summer cold."
"You've never had one before," Sherlock pointed out, accepting the cuppa with a nod. Mrs. Hudson did a little wave before heading downstairs. "I saw your medical records."
"And how, pray tell, did you have access of them?"
Sherlock sipped his tea. Hmm, needs more milk.
John threw his hands up in the air, resigned. "Right, your brother's the government."
"No, I asked Lestrade to pull up your profile."
"And he did?" Sherlock scoffed.
"A lot of people care a great deal for you, John Watson."
John was giving him one of those soft smiles again. All warm and mushy. Making him feel things. Gah. "People care a great deal for you, too, Sherlock Holmes."
"Yes, well," Sherlock cleared his throat, thrown by the sudden comment but should've honestly expected it. John Watson is a very emotional man, after all. Emotional and so very kind. "They don't need to. I'm fine."
John's smile fell. "A Study in Pink."
"I had it under control."
"The Blind Banker. 
."
"John—"
"And literally all of your cases, Sherlock—no, don't 'John' me. You're a reckless idiot and you know it."
Keeping his mouth shut, Sherlock poured more milk to his tea and stirred it. John took his own cuppa, dropping a sugar cube that signified he was more stressed that usual. Did he really worry him that much?
"John," Sherlock stated, earning his attention. "I learned five different types of martial arts. I can shoot a gun and know how to make a bomb with things lying on the floor. I'll be fine."
John regarded him for a while, eyes blue and very, very bright. Sherlock loved staring into those eyes. So clear but filled with emotions that flit too fast for him to comprehend. Open but still hiding secrets Sherlock itched to find out.
"Maybe you are," John began, holding his cuppa. "But I'll still worry, Sherlock. Even if we'd be in the safest place on earth, I'd still worry."
"Why?" Why do you care? Why do you feel so deeply for him? He's nobody, unworthy of your time and feelings.
John held his gaze, beseeching him to understand and 
.
(Look at me, his eyes said. See how much I care for you, how much I love—)
"Because I care for you, Sherlock. Very much."
Sherlock placed his lips on the rim of his cup, and said nothing.
That was fine. John heard his unspoken words.
(I care for you, too)
.
It's three months later when he meets Maria again. He's with John this time around, back on his feet from his illness and helping him solve a serial kidnapping of children. Lestrade seemed angry, almost livid. Sherlock knew it was because he had little ones his own. Even John, who had no children, was affected.
Sherlock had to solve this. 
.
He had less than seven hours before the twenty-four hour mark hit since the last child, one Jane Kirkland, was taken from her school. The Yard had searched every place within a twenty-five mile radius, and Sherlock was missing a piece. Just one more piece that would complete the puzzle and finish this up.
"John, tell me what you see."
John gave him an aggrieved look, but relented. He look around him and the school playground. "Footsteps, lots of them. Some toys upturned and left, there's a bit of blood near the monkey bars. One of the kids must've nicked themselves. No adult footprints seen, and no other signs of tampering either."
"Yes, but how? Men don't fly."
"Maybe they lured her away?"
"Without alarming the other children? Her parents said they taught her to never go with strangers."
John looked up at him sharply. "You think it's one of the staff."
"I don't think, John. I know it's one of them."
"Well, why didn't you tell Lestrade? We could've questioned them!"
"John," Sherlock held his head in his hands. "You're spiraling. Breathe, John. Breathe."
Following his breathing patterns, Sherlock let him go when John seemed relatively calmer. He'll never be truly at ease until Sherlock solved the case and he was 
"Mr. Holmes?"
Blinking, Sherlock looked at the direction where the voice came from, and saw Maria. She was wearing a thin long-sleeve and jeans, sneakers scuffed still.
"Molotov Cocktail, you live around here?" The girl laughed, approaching them regardless of the yellow police tape around.
"Yeah. Just down that block. What's the tea?"
"The what?"
"The tea. What's the gossip, the news, what's happening?"
Confused at the slang used by teenagers these days, Sherlock gestured around. "Serial kidnapping. Latest victim is a girl named Jane Kirkland. Familiar?"
A concerned expression morphed on her face, and she crossed her arms just as John sighed at him for casually giving away information about the case. "No, sorry. We just moved, remember?"
"It's been three months, though?" John put his two cents in.
Maria shrugged, and Sherlock's eyes narrowed at the slight hitch on her right shoulder. Actually, looking at the hems of her sleeves, she seemed to be in a hurry. And she wasn't simply running late.
"Nah, my folks aren't all that friendly. Busy with work, both of them."
"Busy with other things, too, I presume?"
Maria blinked. "What?" John got his oh-he's-gonna-do-it look on his face.
Glancing at Lestrade, who was within earshot, he said, "Judging by the sleeves of your shirt, you seem to be in a hurry, but not for a meeting or a date. Your sneakers are scuffed, showing that it's an old pair and that you keep items with emotional value. Your jeans are washed out, and have some paint splatters, so you're an artist of some sort, and there's charcoal smudge on your fingers. Your hair's slightly wet, but not from a shower or rain. There's a faint smell of chamomile coming from you, and it's not perfume. Tell me, Maria Smith, how long has your stepmother been abusing you?"
"
Lestrade yelled, voice harsh and hackles raised. Maria jumped in surprise, and John hurriedly checked her over for external injuries. Hissing when he discovered the bruised shoulder, Lestrade angrily looked at the two before unstrapping his walkie-talkie and barking out some orders.
"House is down by that block," Sherlock supplied, and Lestrade added in the information to the people on the other side of the line.
"Bloody bastards," Lestrade gritted his teeth. Sherlock hummed in agreement. John was waving over a medical member of the response team, likely to ask for some medical supplies. Maria was looking subdued, shoulders slumped and eyes on the ground. Well, that won't do.
"Why didn't you throw a molotov cocktail at her, Maria?"
Maria's mouth twitched. "Pregnant. 'S why dad married her."
"Mistress?"
She shook her head. John pulled her sleeve up and started cleaning the wound. "Mum's dead. She's a bitch, though. My stepmum, not Mum. Mum's amazing."
Hours later sees Mrs. Smith in handcuffs and Maria in government custody. Her father's no help and Sherlock would rather let a cactus take care of her than this pathetic excuse of a human being. What type of fool wouldn't notice the mistreatment of his own daughter? A fool, that's who. He'll be charged with child neglect, as well. Good riddance.
"So," John ran a hand through his hair. "Where's she going to live now?"
"Child services will take care of it. An officer's going to escort her until she reaches the facilities. Best case scenario, she finds a good family that'll take her in by the end of the month."
"Unlikely. She's a teenager."
Lestrade released a deep sigh. "We can hope."
It didn't sit well with Sherlock, the idea of Maria wasting away in some orphanage in London. He still had a case to solve, and he gnawed on his lower lip before blurting out, "We can."
"What?" John looked at him, eyes wide and understanding in them. "What—us? Raise a child?"
"She's barely one, John. She can take care of herself. We can just give her a roof over her head until she gets emancipated and a steady job." It was simple: he'll talk with Mrs. Hudson to open up 221C for Maria—an easy feat with her heart of gold—until she'll get a job to pay her share of the rent, John can give her check-ups and emotional support, and Sherlock can get Mycroft to move his ass and speed up the adoption process.
Maria gets a stable environment, John gets to fuss all he wants, Lestrade can drop by and do whatever he wanted to do, and Sherlock can sleep well at night. As soon as he solves the missing children's case.
"Sh—Sherlock, you can't just—adopt a child! It's a serious commitment!"
"What makes you think I'm not serious? Look, I'm already texting Mycroft to speed up the paperwork." He showed him his phone. John buried his face in his hands.
"You sure about this, Sherlock?" Lestrade asked, hands in pockets. He glanced to where Maria was huddled inside an ambulance, covered in an orange shock blanket. "Parenting's a full-time job, you know? It's not something you can just call quits on day."
"I'll hardly be parenting. John can handle that."
"
"What? You like mothering me, what's one more to mother? And Mrs. Hudson will love her, I'm sure of it."
"I'm not—" John inhaled strongly with his nose. "I'm not worried about Mrs. Hudson, they'll be best friends by day one. No, I'm worried about you, Sherlock."
"Me?" Why would he be worried? Sherlock doesn't hate children, and they won't be living with each other. They'll be neighbors at most.
"Yes, you. You're invested in this. I know how you are when you get invested in someone."
"What ever do you mean?" He's not invested. Merely… making sure that she won't be at a loss. Being a good member of society, yes. Shouldn't he be proud?
John looked at him, clearly not believing him. "Sherlock, you're going to become attached."
"No, I won't. I don't get attached."
Now, even Lestrade was giving him a look. Sherlock huffed, ignoring them. Ungrateful bastards, all of them. He does one good thing and they decide he's crazy. Fine. See if he cares.
Phone pinging, Sherlock unlocked it to see a dry text from Mycroft, asking him if he's sane or if he finally asked John to marry him (never), and were planning to start a family.
A second. Then a reply.
Pocketing his phone, he saw Maria staring at him. Ah, John had told her, then?
"Problem?" Maria shrugged.
"You two are gonna adopt me?" Sherlock nodded. "Yes, well, that's the plan. Would you prefer Holmes or Watson? You can keep your family name, if you'd like."
Maria was shaking her head, looking at him with a smile that said she didn't believe this was happening. "Yeah, no. Can I have both? Hyphenate, it? Holmes-Watson."
Sherlock didn't bat a lash. "You'll have to ask John, but I don't mind."
"Uh, sure?" John answered, bewildered. "We're not married, though?"
Maria made an agreeing noise, eyeing the two of them with a glint in her eye. "I know. Also…" her shoulders hunched up, and Sherlock waited until she had her words. John gave her a patient smile. "…can I change my first name, too?"
"Into what?"
She hesitantly murmured, "Nikolas."
John tilted his head. "But that's a boy's name."
"Yeaaaah… about that. I don't. Like. Being a girl." She—
 tapped his shoe on the pavement. Lestrade's eyebrows were disappearing into his hairline.
"
, oh! That's fine, Maria—er, Nikolas. It's fine, we won't judge you. So, Nikolas Holmes-Watson?"
Sherlock tutted. "Holmes tradition says you need to have three first names. Mummy insists."
"Three?" Lestrade repeated. "Well, what's yours, then?"
Sherlock grumbled. He didn't like his names. "William Sherlock Scott Holmes."
They all stared at him in amazement, before simultaneously breaking out into various exclamations of surprise.
"Your first name is 
?"
"
? Scott? You don't look like one!"
"Woah. That's a lotta names."
Sherlock turned his back at them. This is why he didn't like telling people his names.
"Wait, wait, wait. What about Mycroft?" Lestrade asked, breaking out into a grin. Well, glad his obnoxious names brought you happiness, Gavil. "What's Mycroft's full name?"
"Alexander Mycroft Chad Holmes."
John bursted into peals of laughter, and Nikolas joined him, clutching his stomach. Lestrade looked like he was about to suffocate or choke.
Sherlock rolled his eyes, but smiled.
It was funny.
The day ended with the kidnapper arrested, the children safe, everyone happy, and Mrs. Hudson doting on Nikolas upon laying her eyes upon him. With a promise to help him shop for his necessities and furniture, Sherlock turned in for the night and slept.
