The Door
Hospital visitors usually bring grapes. But John Watson brought his ugly old walking stick to Sherlock Holmes, a symbol of final rejection and dismissal. And yet….between the fire extinguisher at St Cadwaella's and the cup of tea in Baker Street, something happened to change his mind. This happened.
'No-one bites back as hard on their anger; None of my pain and woe can show through;
I have hours, only lonely, My love is vengeance that's never free.
(Pete Townsend)
The door was still ajar. This time, John Watson hesitated to go through it into Ward 73.
The guilt and fear and anger that had driven him forward an hour earlier to break down the door with a fire extinguisher had left a broken lock, a handle loosely swinging, and horseshoe shaped dents in the white fibreboard.
But for now the ferocity and the action were over. All was quiet again in St Caedwalla's Hospital, peace restored. Culverton Smith, bright eyed but strangely quiet in handcuffs, had been cautioned and driven away to Victoria Embankment. Sally Donovan had taken a preliminary statement from Nurse Cornish, and bawled out PC Couzens for having left his post guarding Sherlock Holmes and the door to the side ward, allowing the hospital benefactor to turn the lock and attempt to murder the consulting detective.
Into the hiatus of restraint and rescue after trauma, Lestrade had entered the ward like the still centre of some tornado, calm, empowered, and focussed. Walking in on the dramatic tableau, assessing the situation in seconds: a small man somehow shrunken even smaller in the grip of the stolid, bearded police constable, the barely contained anger of the doctor clutching the aluminium walking stick instead of his battering ram, the now discarded fire extinguisher rolling on the floor….and, finally, looking over to the most dominant presence of all, the vulnerable wretched body of the man on the bed, dressed only in an overlarge blue surgical gown, sweating in reaction and clutching a thin hospital blanket to himself, as much for warmth as protection against nakedness.
For the ill fitting surgical gown exposed too much pale flesh, hollowed collarbones and cheekbones more gaunt than ever, long limbs contorted in barely disguised stress and pain.
"You OK?"
Lestrade crossed to the bed, instinctively put out a hand, which was ignored.
"Been better."
The terse reply sounded somewhere between neutral and bored, but Lestrade was not fooled. Saw only too clearly the sheen of cold sweat about the body, shadows around the eyes, clusters of fresh track marks and the cannula from the saline drip defacing the right forearm, the one closest to him. The left arm was braced on the raised side of the bed. Tense enough to tremble.
"Oh yeah?" Lestrade asked, detached cynical humour getting a reaction where concern and sympathy would not. He tempered disappointment at another regression into drugs with concern over the effect, of the narrowness of his escape from death once more; he knew this man, weaknesses as well as strengths, only too well.
Yet now, looking closer, he spotted fresh stitches over the left eye and a swollen eye socket, new bruises, the hunched torso that always indicted sore ribs. He bit back fear and anger, everything but the most immediate question.
"Did he hurt you? Smack you?"
"Culverton Smith?" The victim shrugged his entire body "He tried to overdose ..and to suffocate me. "
"So explain the battering?"
Grey eyes slid past him, briefly onto John Watson, and back again.
"What took you so long to get here?" the patient grumbled. Deflecting. Distracting. Unclear to which of the two men standing beside the high hospital bed he was asking the question.
John Watson pursed his lips tightly but did not reply. Looked away.
"Traffic's a bitch this time of day…." Lestrade excused himself as John Watson offered him the walking stick, handle unscrewed, red recording light no longer blinking. "So what's this?"
"Helpful recording. Attempted murder in progress," said the patient helpfully. "Mine. Confession of sorts. Have a listen."
Lestrade gaped.
"You recorded Culverton Smith trying to kill you?"
"No." A twisted grin. "John did. He saved me, you know."
Something passed between Sherlock Holmes and John Watson; a fleering look, some silent communication. Lestrade's head shot up; belatedly aware of the exchange but missing the meaning.
Holmes turned away from them both, a movement of physical discomfort, perhaps, as Watson released the aluminium walking stick into the policeman's hands.
"I'll just….go listen….get up to speed…" Lestrade was nonplussed, floundering. Disconcerted by the sight of Sherlock Holmes quietly writhing in vulnerable extremis, between drugs and danger and the aftermath of both. "Don't want to distress you, hearing it back so soon. So soon after….…" Sherlock Holmes stilled, lifted an indifferent shoulder.
"Whatever."
"Come with me, John?" He didn't know why he needed to hear the recording at that moment, or why he asked John Watson to accompany him. But he humoured his copper's instinct.
"Yeah. We need to know, don't we?"
John Watson's agreement was instant; too quick, Lestrade thought. As if he did not want to be left alone with the patient. So Lestrade's concentration sharpened. That was not normal, not right. Even though the atypical abuse John Watson had thrown at Sherlock Holmes in the London Aquarium, across his wife's dead body, still echoed in his head.
"You don't look well, Sherlock," Lestrade observed as quietly as he could, despite - or because of - knowing the consulting detective hated comment on his health or physicality. Restrained himself from asking questions, from criticising the return to drugs. "Shock and suchlike. We'll get you moved to another ward, yeah?"
"I….." Words failed the consulting detective for once. And Lestrade did not like that either.
Into the silence, decision came unexpectedly; and yet, why not? John Watson was a doctor after all. And no mere general practitioner either, but a former military trauma surgeon; and whatever this was, whatever they were facing in the newly calm enclave of ward 73, there was certainly a still evolving trauma here.
"You must be joking, Lestrade. Culverton Smith has just tried to kill him. This is Culverton Smith's hospital – this whole wing is even named after him! You think Sherlock would be safe left here, alone? Even with that bastard gone?"
The sarcasm and anger in the doctor's voice, the tension in his set features and clenched fists, left Lestrade speechless. For some reason John Watson was on the verge of punching someone; it was just not clear who. Or why. Especially now Culverton Smith was snared and removed.
Sherlock Holmes, despite being talked over, had no automatic comeback, apparently barely listening, just bit his lip and lowered his head. Such atypical lack of response sent a shaft of fear through the detective inspector's heart and instincts. But he also knew John Watson was right.
"Point taken," Lestrade said.
"I'm taking him home," the doctor continued. Still sounding angry. "Back to Baker Street, I mean. Check him out. Let Mrs Hudson look after him."
Holmes and Watson exchanged another blank look but still did not speak to each other. And for a moment Lestrade again felt a stab of unease. Even though he was used to silent communication between the two, there was definitely something wrong here, something out of kilter.. He nodded agreement to Watson's decision.
"OK, let's go and listen to what just happened here, what we both missed," Watson said, already half way to the door. Paused to look back to the man on the bed. "As for you…." The words were harsh, an instruction without compassion. "Get dressed and be ready to move when we come back. Then I'll take you where you belong." His mouth twisted in an ironic smile. "Mrs H. lent me her car…"
o0o0o
And now. Now John Watson hesitated before going back into Ward 73.
Locked inside the privacy and bleak anonymity of a tiny laundry room off the main corridor Lestrade had commandeered – he thought he would never smell bleach or floor polish without remembering those moments – he and Lestrade had bent over the tiny recorder hidden inside the regulation NHS aluminium walking stick to listen to what had happened in Ward 73 without them.
And they had looked at each other in silent and steadily increasing horror as they did so.
"
"
"
"
Those distraught words drummed and drummed in John Watson's head. Would drum forever. The first thing, he thought dispassionately as if considering someone else, the first thing to penetrate his grief. And he didn't like it. Or want it. Not this. Not Sherlock Holmes.
But. He had never heard Sherlock Holmes sound so naked, or so scared, as on that recording. And he had - thought he had - heard the detective in every mood and guise over the years. At times, just as close to death and destruction as this. So he knew, this time, the fear and confession in that distinctive voice were truth as well as scenario; a drug addict past redemption yet still playing a role, brought to the brink, yet still doing what he always did. Catching the villain….regardless.
Regardless of himself. Regardless of life or death. And how often had he heard Sherlock Holmes say: "I'll do anything to win" but never quite believed it? He believed it now.
Both Watson and Lestrade could feel the response to what they were hearing play across their faces, but they could not speak to each other. Listening was more important. Not missing a word. Not breaking the spell of the horror of it all. And when the recording ended (
 Lestrade breathed hard, clutched the stick harder and simply said:
"That was a close call, John. Too bloody close." He stood erect. "Right. Off to interview Culverton Smith. Slap a holding charge on him for now; attempted murder. Must talk to Sherlock too. Witness statement. Later, though. When he's recovered a bit.. " He turned, opened the door. "Get him home, John. And look after him.."
"Not my job. Not any more."
The words were harsh, finally voicing aloud that simmering resentment.
John Watson had replied almost without thought, shaking his head. Refused to back down even when Lestrade, stilled in mid motion, looked sharp surprise at him, challenged with a fiercely contained "what the fuck's got into you….?"
"Rosie," he declared with unarguable finality. "Rosie comes first. Sherlock know that."
There was silence as they both stood poised, halfway through the laundry room door. Challenge and defence and disappointment stood between them.
"And where is Rosie right now?"
"Not just dumped on Mrs Hudson, you'll be pleased to know.. With her minder. All booked and paid for."
"That's nice. Planning on sending him the bill for that, are you? Despite all you owe him."
Lestrade cursed the disillusion in his soul, the words he could not hold back.
"Owe him? Owe him for what? He killed my wife."
A brief dark silence hung between them until Lestrade spoke, voice the softest steel.
"I'm making allowances for your grief, John, but say that again and I will smack you."
Lestrade was rarely so forthright, or so judgmental, and he watched John Watson rock in reaction, then bite back with bitterness.
"You don't have a clue."
"I do, actually." Lestrade sighed, grimaced. " But now isn't the time or the place. For now -just get Sherlock home."
Lestrade turned and walked away down the corridor, the walking stick in his hand, and John Watson watched him go, feeling oddly chastised. Suddenly uncomfortable in his own skin.
He had come when called, hadn't he? Acted with determination, did what he was told. Saved Sherlock Holmes. So what was Lestrade's problem?
Had he not already done more than might have been expected of him? In the circumstances? And why was he feeling he had to justify himself anyway?
Only hours ago he had entered the side ward with his final speech to Sherlock Holmes all prepared, a determination never to speak to him ever again, to make each last word count, the earlier release of using his fists and feet on the man who had once been his best friend, bolstering his actions, his confidence and his anger.
It had seemed so right then, so appropriate; the day after they met he had killed a man to save Sherlock Holmes. And now, the day before they separated forever, he had almost killed Sherlock Holmes. There was an appropriate synchronicity to it.
So now was time to end it. End them. End it all. Sherlock Holmes had died, and returned. But Mary Watson had died, never to return. And it was all Sherlock Holmes' fault; grief and despair, hope and marriage and despair and grief again. And Sherlock Holmes was the root of it all. Everything that had happened in his life, the rollercoaster of his last few years.
So. No more Sherlock Holmes. A different life beckoned now. A normal life, an ordinary life, being a doctor, a father, and moving on, moving forward. Just this one thing left to do, this man to disown and to move beyond.
He took a deep breath, opened, easily now, the door he had so recently broken open, and stepped back into Ward 73. Beyond the door into the small private ward where all seemed finally calm; where machines stood silent, the bed empty, pillows and covers folded and stacked at the end, army style – 
but with no sign of Sherlock Holmes.
For a split second he felt a lurch of panic; had the patient died and been taken away? Relapsed and moved elsewhere? Been kidnapped by Culverton Smith henchmen to stop him testifying against the man? Then sanity returned. To have been taken elsewhere a trolley or wheelchair, or even footsteps, would have to have passed the little laundry room he had shared with Lestrade. And that had not happened. No-one had passed their tiny retreat.
, dammit - and think.
"Sherlock?" he asked softly into the room, reluctant to break the silence. Then again, louder: "Sherlock!"
There was no reply. And there was no-one under the bed. So the only logical place was the en suite bathroom, concealed with a small wardrobe behind the curved aspen wood feature screen. Six quiet steps and he was there, at the doorway, looking in.
A minimalist white shining space, shower, sink, toilet.
And pressed up tight against the wall beside the door, a tall immobile figure, clothed once again in the dirty sweaty clothes of the day before, the day when the world had broken free from it's axis, into threat and fear, bludgeoning and blood.
The Belstaff, tightly buttoned up to the throat, encompassed everything, despite the warmth of the room. Arms were folded high and tight on the chest, hands in opposite armpits, stance all wrong somehow; too erect, head thrust back against the wall, eyes hooded, closed, not looking his way. On anyone else the look would be vulnerable and defensive; on Sherlock Holmes….it was unusual, unsettling, and had to be some sort of trick. Again.
Even though what should be the most disturbing aspect of all – if he had been in a mood to be disturbed – the overall look of a normally fastidious man dressed yet still unwashed, with greasy uncombed hair, a sweaty face badly in need of a shave, a man who had climbed back into dirty clothes and looked as if he did not care. Or perhaps not even realise.
"Sherlock?" he said again, louder and more sharply.
No movement, just a whispered mutter. Not directly to John Watson, mostly to himself.
"Timely penitence," the baritone was low and carefully enunciated..
"What? What did you say?"
The head finally turned towards him so very slowly, eyes opening, pale and blank, contact deliberately absent.
"Timely penitence," Sherlock Holmes repeated. "Funny the way public school memories return to assure one in times of need. Timely penitence. D'you know it?" Even more quietly he began to speak-sing.
"
The sea storm eyes, piercing now, slid across to meet John Watson's before blinking away."Anything sound familiar?".
"Stop it. Shut up. Just shut up." John Watson felt his voice break unexpectedly.
No visible reaction except another long blink. Two. Then the voice doggedly continued.
"
He stopped. Looked at John Watson properly now.
"Inward horror, John. Pardon. Mercy. Anything appropriate there?"
"Stop it, Sherlock. What's got into you?"
"I've just risen from my bed of death, John. Well, obviously. Bit of a facer, that. So sorry to disappoint you by still being alive." A pause, a change of tone from supercilious to subdued.
"What are you doing here? I didn't think you were coming." The head bowed, shook, drew a harsh breath. "Coming back."
"What the hell are you talking about?" John Watson tried to curb the anger verging on panic he could hear in his voice. "We only left you to check out the recording. You heard Lestrade say so. I did tell you – tell Lestrade – I wouldn't leave you here. Would take you to Baker Street. "
" I didn't mean…." The consulting detective shook his head. "Was expecting Lestrade. To come back for me. Organise a lift or something. Not you.. No, not you. I can get a taxi.….."
John Watson felt rejected, dismissed. And then awkwardly realised he had no right to feel hurt. Rushed to fill the sudden silence between them.
"Lestrade's gone. Taken the walking stick and the recording," he felt compelled to explain. "Gone to charge Culverton Smith with attempted murder, for starters." He took a deep breath as the consulting detective's eyes slid blankly away from his again, mind elsewhere.
"Ah, yes. Holding charge. Of course."
The voice sounded tired, almost bored. This apparent lack of connection, the lack of assumption of his care, left John Watson floundering and disturbed.
He could stop talking right there, he knew. Simply take Sherlock Holmes' arm, bundle him downstairs and into Mrs Hudson's Aston Martin. Nothing simpler, or more basic. Something he had done more times than he could remember. Rescue Sherlock Holmes. From villains, from his brother, from himself. But this, he now realised with a chill in his heart, was different.
To do that now…to care for the younger man…and for the last time…gave him pause. He had meant to turn his back and walk away forever. But he could not just do that, not any more. But he had to. He had promised himself…..something about solitude and peace.
He had spent years rescuing Sherlock Holmes. And now he had stopped doing that. Had sworn to himself he would never do that again. Yet here he was, he thought. Doing it. Again.
He was confused and angry. He had been angry with Sherlock Holmes for such a long time. Before Mary's death; before Mary. Ever since he had jumped of a building and died. Ever since he had returned from the dead that was not death. Ever since Mary's very real death. The death Sherlock Holmes had caused.
He needed to remain angry, he reminded himself. Treat Sherlock Holmes like someone he hated, or disregarded at best: not a man or a friend, but as a mere parcel to be shifted from one place to another. Because he had promised that much to Martha Hudson, to Lestrade.
He had no space in his heart or his mind to soften that attitude, he told himself. This was about survival. His survival, not Sherlock Holmes'.
Everything that had happened to destroy his world – 
 – was because of Sherlock Holmes! The anger stoked, it tasted like bile in his throat.
"We heard the recording, Sherlock," he snapped, voice almost too angry to get the words out. For the patience to deal with this hollowed vestige of the man he had known. "And you heard me tell Lestrade. I'm taking you home."
He watched intently as that long throat moved, swallowed.
"Don't trouble yourself. I'll get myself back to Baker Street. I am not your responsibility, not any more You have made that quite clear."
There was no energy or resentment in the voice, no eye contact to be read.
John Watson had the unnerving feeling he was talking to a stranger, with a stranger talking back to him. And regardless of everything, that felt so wrong!
"You asked him- Culverton Smith - to kill you," John Watson blurted out, tried to keep the horror from his voice. "You said you did not want to die, yet you asked him to kill you."
"I recall. I was there."
"Why did you do that?"
"You know me, John. Anything to win."
Still the consulting detective did not return to his default position of sarcasm, dismissal, energy or anger. Just that dead voice again, the over patient explanation.
There was a brief silence. Neither man moved.
"You're not going to tell me, are you?" He could hear the anger in his head rising into his voice, battled to contain it; but was too accustomed to venting his anger these days instead of his more characteristic restraint. Brakes off. Bugger it!
"Are you, you tosser?"
A dismissive shrug.
"Nothing to tell. To stop Culverton Smith in his serial killings was worth the risk. Risk of dying. I did tell you I had a plan. I did tell you that you wouldn't like it."
"For God's sake, Sherlock! You asked him to kill you. That's not a fucking plan! That's…..self sacrifice." words failed him upon voicing that realisation, and he dragged a deep breath. "Why are you being like this? Being so stupid? Tell me!"
Somehow, in the storm of an emotion he could not even define, he had stepped forward and now found the lapels of the Belstaff clenched in his whitened fists. The younger man did not resist, but braced backwards, a dark mass against the white wall.
"Or do you really want me to hit you again?"
There was the sound of a small involuntary noise that might have been a whimper from Sherlock Holmes' throat, a sound John Watson had never heard before. Which made him suddenly drop his tense hands from the coat, not knowing quite where to put them now.
That had been a sound of fear. And that was not the Sherlock Holmes he knew.
"If you want," The indifference in the voice sounded strained, and killed John Watson's anger stone dead so quickly it made him feel faint. "After all, it's just payment in kind. You are entitled. I did kill your wife."
"No. No! That's not what…" John Watson fought for balance as he watched Sherlock Holmes watch him; as still and calculating as usual, yet somehow also too tense and ineffably sad.
An admission he had never intended to make forced it's way out of him.
"I watched the DVD, Sherlock. Mary's video. Telling you to save me….by going to hell."
"So that was the only reason you came here? Because Mary told you to? Well, thank you so much," was the reply, intoned with such quiet cynicism he craned forward to hear the words as much as he was repulsed by them. "But you weren't supposed to see that."
"Well I did. And now I can see…you did exactly what she asked of you, didn't you? You went down to Hell." A grounding deep breath. "The drugs, the self abasement, calling out Smith as a killer publicly then pandering to his mania,,,,," The younger man did not deny or confirm. Just looked back at him without expression. "Don't blame Mrs Hudson for showing me the recording. I found the disc on your mantelpiece. '
' it said. I thought it was…something else."
"Clearly."
The tone was dry. There was a slight shift, a slide sideways along the wall..
"Mary left me her orders. My instructions."
"You didn't have to act on them!"
"No?" The sneer filled the voice, the face remaining hopelessly impassive. And again that fleeting thought; that he knew Sherlock Holmes not at all, And less and less by the day; this drug addled, twitching, pale faced and inhuman creature.
Had he been like this when the first met? When he had just been too broken and traumatised himself to see it then? The thought brought pain. Shame? For he was traumatised now, all these years on. It was becoming a habit….
"Oh? You don't think I was obliged to? I owed Mary my life. So to have lost my life to Culverton Smith at her behest….would have had proper…synchronicity. Don't you think?"
There was a flash of the old humour in the question, then the shaky new impassivity reasserted itself.
"I'm not worth your sacrifice, Sherlock." He could not stop himself saying the words. He meant them, he realised; meant them so much they came out flattened and too naked. "I don't deserve it."
He risked looking up into those young old eyes, afraid of what he would see there. But there was still no expression; or, if there had been, he had not looked up quickly enough to see it. Just that bruised blank look he could not read, a strange disconnection that just had to be the result of the drugs and the overdose.
"That's not for you to say, John. You are not in your right mind at the moment. Torn apart by grief and guilt. No….." a hand flapped a gesture in the old way. "Don't protest. I don't blame you. I'm not…in my right mind either. We are what is known colloquially as 'a right pair' currently, as far as that is concerned."
He breathed a humourless laugh. Hunched his shoulders in upon himself in a way John Watson had never seen him do before. And because of that, the response came out sharp and intense.
"You walked too close to the edge with this, Sherlock. There is no way I would ask you to die for me."
"You didn't. Mary did." He sucked in a breath, hesitated, continued. "I told you. I did. At the beginning of this. At the therapist's house. That I was at the bottom. That I could not do this alone any more. You just didn't want to hear…too angry with me. Needing to blame someone for your grief. Blame me."
He grimaced and shifted away again, creating distance. And when John Watson put out a hand, an automatic act beyond thought, he twisted sharply away, backed into the shower screen, No further space to retreat into.
There was a silence John Watson did not like the sound of.
"You…" he began, stalled. Tried again, wanting to deny the evidence of his eyes and instinct.
"Stop moving away from me. That's not like you." A sudden thought struck him that had to be voiced. "Are you frightened, Sherlock? Frightened of me?"
Those too watchful eyes finally cut his way.
"Would that not seem reasonable? Yesterday you hit me, hit me hard. Made me bleed. Kicked, kept kicking, cracked a couple of ribs. I have stitches and bruises, as you can see, and breathing would hurt if I wasn't drugged up to the eyeballs. Legally drugged this time, how ironic. So I suppose I should thank you for that nicety.
"You hit me, John. And kept hitting. I thought you were going to kill me. Frustration and grief, I know, but….."
John Watson put out a hand to stop that calm analysis, shook his head, overwhelmed by an intense sense of self and of shame
"Jesus, Sherlock. I didn't….how do I even begin to apologise?"
That little frown appeared between the eyes, and it suddenly looked so human, so familiar, John Watson was flooded with a relief he knew he had no right to feel.
"Apologise for what?"
Not a joke, he noted. Not the typical sarcasm or dismissal. A genuine bafflement, then.
"Anger management issues for a start….."
" Stop whining. You sound pathetic. But then, you have sounded pathetic for months. It is getting wearing." The old hurtful Sherlock was back.
"Well, thanks for that."
"Shut up. Humility doesn't suit you. Or was that irony? I can never tell. No matter" He nodded, thought process and assurance. "You were perfect. Wonderfully predictable."
"What?"
"I wanted you to hit me. Beat me to a pulp."
"I don't believe you. This is some trick, isn't it? To make me feel better?"
"Why should I try to make you feel better? When you blame me for everything? No. When my original plan to infiltrate the hospital went off the rails – Culverton Smith introducing me to all and sundry in that bloody children's ward, all that trail of publicity, everyone recognising me, I knew there was no way I could snoop without being noticed.
"So then I had to play the Faith card to show myself as delusional, drug addled, mentally incapable, but also too close to the truth to let go, to get me committed into a ward to investigate from the inside. But that went wrong too. Both Plan A and Plan B shot.
"So then I needed an alternative way to get inside the workings of the hospital. And fast. Before anyone realised this was an investigation, not a breakdown. So I had to get close enough to Culverton Smith to get a confession out of him.
"Then, of course, when he confessed I knew he would have to kill me."
"Why would he need to confess? To kill you?"
"The need to kill someone – anyone - was consuming him as much as the need to confess was pouring out of him; the need for applause, to have the world see how clever he had been. You heard him say 'I'm a serial killer' for the TV commercial for those cornflake things. To sail that close to the wind, knowing no-one would dare hear what he was really saying as he pretended to eat that dish of cereal…."
Sherlock Holmes paused to wipe the sweat from his face with the heel of one hand.
"He was starting to crumble, literally dying to confess; to someone, to anyone. Ad that had to be me, so I could get him. The catch being, he could only feel safe to confess to me after he had decided to kill me. Stop me from telling anyone else.
"That is too much of a commitment, even for you. You're lying."
"Why would I?" He looked up, eyes all seeing, luminous. "Oh! But this isn't about me, is it? It's about you justifying yourself for rescuing me -despite hating me - to make you feel better about Mary dying, So you could keep feeling angry. Keep stoking your grief and blaming everyone else – but mainly me - because you married an assassin?
"Because rescuing me doesn't fit with blaming me for killing her, does it?
John Watson took a step forward, and Sherlock Holmes slid another step sideways.
"But I digress. As I was saying…the best plan I could make on the spur of the moment was to pretend to lose it; to grab a scalpel and go for Culverton Smith. Get restrained and sedated and put in hospital for my own good, my own safety.
"I knew the doctor in you would protect him. Not me. " The words were remorseless. And John Watson could not deny their truth. "You already hated me, despite being by my side.. You wanted to beat me. You have wanted to beat me to a pulp since Mary died. So I was counting on you doing that, actually."
John Watson felt as if both his heart and his brain had stopped working. Because he realised Sherlock Holmes' words were truths.
"You are a total bastard." Was all he could say.
"Yes. That's why you love me."
The six words sounded like a death knell. Like horror. Like anger and pain and truth.
"Hate you," he flashed back, correcting.
"Whatever. A thin red line between the two. Either had the same result."
They were both breathing hard now. As if they had been running. Or in the midst of battle.
The doctor could see the fearful honesty reflected in the consulting detective's eyes.
"I've had enough of this bullshit. Let's get you back to Baker Street before I really lose my temper."
Irritated, he grabbed a handful of Belstaff and yanked.
And that was when the impossible happened.
When Sherlock Holmes was pulled off balance, staggered…and screamed – a high, throttled, keening sound of fear. Half turned away into the shower screen, then turned back, fast. Hs left arm flashed out and delivered a full forearm smash to the side of John Watson's head.
Taken utterly by surprise, the doctor was flung backwards, bouncing off the bathroom door jamb, landing flat on his back on the floor of side ward 73. More winded and startled than hurt, automatically starting to scrabble backwards and away from his assailant as the Belstaff closed darkly down over him like a raven's wings.
"You! Hit! Me!"
He could hear the amazement and the childish hurt in his own voice. He didn't sound like a doctor and a soldier, he thought fleetingly to himself. He sounded like a small, miserable child.
Shock, he decided. Surprise. Betrayal. The final straw that broke the camel's back and let true emotion in. Sherlock Holmes had hit him. And he had never, ever, done that before. True emotion flashed through his entire body; not the self pity he had been hugging to himself for too long…
"Yeah. My turn." Bitter words that did not quite mask something he had seen so often in other people, but not in Sherlock Holmes. "Don't you think?"
Sherlock Holmes had swooped forward in fear fuelled attack like some dark angel. Then visibly took control of himself again and backed away, towards the broken door.
Broken door, broken man, John Watson thought fleetingly. Broken men.
"You've never…" he stammered from floor level.
"But I can. And I have." Sherlock Holmes was still backing away. "But never you. Not until now. No choice."
His lips immediately formed the words: 
 But in all honesty he could not speak them aloud. For he knew why, finally, Sherlock Holmes had broken through his rigid habitual self control.
"Sherlock, wait!" It was as if he had not been heard. Sherlock Holmes jammed his fists down into his coat pockets and turned away. John Watson lunged across the floor, reached out, caught the thick wool, the hem of the Belstaff.
"Let go, John."
"No. Not until….until I say it, even if you can't. Won't. "
Sherlock Holmes was stilled now. Silent. Body turned away, looking away.
"You knew I would hit you. In the morgue. Needed me to hit you. That was part of your plan. But you didn't know how much I would hit you. How far I would go. You thought I was going to kill you yesterday. And you were fine with that. You were ready to die. To stop Culverton Smith killing anyone else. To stop my grief and pain, if that's what it took. To do Mary's bidding. To try and make things better. Rescue me from myself."
The silence in reply was itself telling.
"Why would you do that, Sherlock? Why put yourself on the line like that?"
"It's what I do. Surely you know that by now? Do. Did."
He reached out and down, and John Watson watched that hand – dirty, grazed, and shaking, with bitten down nails – coming towards him. But instead of touching him the hand took the hem of the coat and wrenched it out of John Watson's hand.
"Sherlock….."
"No. Not now. Whatever it is you think you want to say, I don't want to hear it. Twice in the last two days I've nearly been killed. That's a bit tiring, even for me. And I'm not…." He struggled for a word. Found one. "I'm not well.
"So if you still want to kill me, or just make me suffer again – do it now. Because I've no more fight in me, and I really don't care any more. I did what Mary asked of me. And I saved you. After this…it's up to you. Because you have frightened me. Beyond telling. Beyond even my forebearance. "
 Indeed so."
He stopped talking as if out of words, and just waited. Five long seconds of eternity.
John Watson struggled to know how to react, what to say, how to even identify what he felt.
But his hand went out again of it's own volition. Not to snatch at the coat, but as if in unspoken entreaty.
Sherlock Holmes turned a little, the coat swirling out of John Watson's reach.
"Goodbye, John."
The two words had an air of finality about them. And the man who spoke them turned and slowly walked away.
"Sherlock, no! Sherlock! Wait! Wait! I promised Lestrade I'd tale you home…promised Mrs Hudson I would return her car and return you both, safe and sound! Sherlock."
But the other man walked away and kept walking. Slowly but inexorably. Not pausing or answering. Just walking away. Across Ward 73, through the broken door into the corridor. Turning left and moving steadily from view.
John Watson stumbled to his feet, ran to the doorway. Watched what had been his friend weaving a little from side to side but walking steadily away from him.
And this time he let him. Watched him disappear round the corner. And the sudden absence broke the spell.
He shook himself into action. And ran in the opposite direction.
o0o0o
The Aston Martin waited unharmed where he had left it; abandoned in haste in the small consultant surgeon's car park by the front entrance of the hospital. For a moment he sat in the driving seat, uncertain as to what to do next. Found himself driving around the hospital boundary looking for a tall man in a dark coat; he couldn't have got far…..
And found him at the taxi rank beyond the emergency ambulance bay. Leaning into the passenger door window of the fourth black cab standing on the rank.
Before he could change his mind he drew the Aston Martin up behind the taxi, let down the front windows, listened and waited.
"No, mate, I'm not taking you either," said a peevish, barely patient voice. "You are filthy, and look like some druggie or vagrant. And you're bigger than me: how do I know you won't attack me and steal me motor?"
"Don't be ridiculous! I have money, I can pay you….." John Watson could not see clearly, but could hear the rustle of paper money; could imagine Sherlock Holmes digging his hand deep into his pocket and producing cash, waving it around. "I'm not a druggie or a villain! I'm just…." he paused, and the reluctance to admit weakness was as evident as ever. "I'm just ill."
"Then get back into the bloody hospital and stop being a nuisance."
"And I hope all your flat tyres are little ones!" was the retort.
John Watson grinned despite himself. Saw the long shadow as a tall man moved through the pool of light from the nearby street lamp and walk away.
He engaged a gear and slotted the sports car in front of the row of taxis, ahead of the solitary walker.
"Need a lift, guv?" he offered, almost jokingly, through the car window.
Sherlock Holmes did not break stride, merely turning a little to give him a silent look, assessing, and judging him wanting. John Watson bit his lip, realised the other man was not intending to even pause and walk towards Mrs Hudson's pride and joy.
He waited, watched Sherlock Holmes walk away again. Like a drunk. Shoulders tense, stumbling not striding. Arms a little way out from his body, as if the skill of balance was no longer automatic.
The car surged forward. Past the pedestrian who did not look his way. Stopped again. This time he leant over and opened the passenger side door, partially blocking the pavement. The pedestrian stopped.
"Get in."
"I said goodbye."
"And I said: get in."
"Why should I?"
"Because you are going to fall over if you don't."
"No. I am going to walk home."
"You are an obstinate bugger."
"I find that usually works, yes."
He weaved his way round the car door, and continued his walk towards the main road.
This time John Watson put the Aston Martin into gear and drove away, not stopping again. Heading back towards Baker Street and Mrs Hudson's lockup where the car lived.
It was a lovely car. A secret vehicle and a secret other life he did not know about until today. He had never believed Martha Hudson was really a simple old lady who made tea and baked scones and worried about her bins. But a private income, a supercar, another life…..he shook his head in something like wonder.
No wonder she and Sherlock were more like mother and son than landlady and lodger. Courage and secrecy and hidden depths. Unique qualities and loyalty and friendship…..
He sighed. Drove around the block. Came back to a point 500 yards from where he had stopped before.
"Sherlock! Stop messing about. Get in this car!"
This time the walker lifted his hands from his pockets in a gesture of frustration.
"Why?" he asked.
"Because you need a lift. Because it's a long walk you're in no state to make. Because I worry about you. And because Mrs Hudson would kill me if I don't bring you home safe and sound."
"Oh." More an exhalation of breath than a word. But it was enough to get John Watson out of the driving seat to move around the car, open the passenger door, usher the other man gently down into the passenger seat. Make sure the coat hem was tucked in, close the door.
Back inside the cabin, he leant across and buckled the passenger's seat belt.
Sherlock Holmes smelt of sweat and fear and hospital. Unlike himself. And that caused a twinge of fear in John Watson.
"You're OK," he said. "You'll be OK."
"Thank you for your apparent concern."
"Are you comfortable?"
"Oh, please."
"Twenty minutes to Baker Street."
"I do know my way around London, thank you."
"You're shaking."
"Withdrawal. It happens."
You need to take care of yourself."
"Well, that's a change of tone. Not necessarily for the better.."
"Are you going to talk to me, or just keep sniping in your usual charming style?"
"I am sure even you can work out the answer to that."
At that point John Watson gave up trying to make conversation, and the rest of the journey to Baker Street was silent and uncomfortable.
He ignored the quiet: "You can drop me off here" as they passed the big black door of 221B, and drove on to the garage in a mews beyond the next street. So they walked back to the first floor flat together, just like they used to.
Except that there was a space of eighteen inches and many miles between them. A gap John Watson realised he had no idea how to breach.
There was a front door key on the car fob, and he let them both into the tall terraced house, just like he used to. And was not surprised when Sherlock Holmes continued alone up the stairs while he went to the rear of the house to return the car keys to Mrs Hudson, with both thanks and apology.
"Never mind that," she said, brushing his politeness away with a flap of her hands. "How is Sherlock?"
OK, I think," he said, striving for something between truth and allaying her fears.
"Don't try and pull the wool over my eyes, young man," she returned sharply. "I know a smackhead when I see one. And Sherlock was…ill with it. I haven't seen him so poorly for a long time."
"Yeah." He nodded agreement, not knowing what else to say. "Yeah."
"Which is no answer at all. He may be out of…the situation he was in," she said carefully. "But he needs help. Care. But I suppose you need to go and fetch Rosie? Care for her?"
"Yes…."
"Hmn." Those wise old eyes looked, waited. "Is that all you've got to say? I know you hate him at the moment. But he went down the rabbithole for you. Went past the point of no return. Knowing how bad it would be to go back into that dark place again. Worse for him, because he knew what it was like; how hard it will be to crawl out of the pit. And I'm not sure you understand that. Even with being a doctor."
"Mrs Hudson….."
"He needs someone with him. I'll gather some things together, something for him to eat as well. He needs constant companionship for a bit; keep him from the sweeties, stop him being tempted. You know?"
She did not wait for a reply.
"I'll stay with him tonight. Make up a rota, so we can care for him in shifts; you, me, Molly and Mr Lestrade. Angelo and Raz, perhaps. Billy. I'll ring round in the morning. So you come back tomorrow, you can do a shift as soon as Rosie is settled at the nursery. We'll work it out."
"But…"
No buts. We'll talk about it tomorrow. For now, just go up and say goodnight, and how you'll see him tomorrow. Tell him I'll be along in a few minutes."
"Mrs Hudson…."
"Shoo!" she said, and closed her door on him.
So he went slowly up the seventeen stairs to 221B. Opened the door to see Sherlock Holmes sitting in his armchair, still wearing his coat. Eyes downcast, hands in pockets.
"Mrs Hudson will be up in a minute. With food and… things."
"Go away, then."
Yes. Yes, but I'll be back. Tomorrow. Is that OK?"
"Up to you. But I've said goodbye. Relieved you of any obligation."
"Except that you did it. Did what Mary asked. You saved me."
"No big deal. Culverton Smith needed stopping. Saving you was just a subplot."
"You have saved me before now. Countless times."
"You saved me first. Without that I would not have been here to save you even once. It's all relative."
"I'm not going to argue with you about that."
"Fine."
"I've got to fetch Rosie; I'll be late if I don't go now."
"Then go. I'm not trying to delay you, or make you choose between me and her. You know that."
More words would not come, and he swallowed down a sharp shaft of emotion he could not define.
"I'll be back tomorrow."
"Yes, you have already said so. Thank you."
Sherlock Holmes slowly took his hands from his coat pockets, folded them in his lap.
"I'll be back."
There was a long silence, and John Watson looked at the bent head with it's heavy greasy curls and could think of nothing at all more to say.
"Yes. My door is always open,"
The words were so softly spoken he thought for a second he had imagined them. Until Sherlock Holmes spoke again.
"But close it behind you when you leave."
John Watson could not help smiling a little then. That was more the voice he recognised. Perhaps everything would be all right again. Eventually.
But he did as he was bidden. For now. He left. And closed the door behind him.
END.
The hymn '
with words by Joseph Addison and music by Thomas Tallis, is also known as 
 And is best known as the source tune for Ralph Vaughan William's 1910 composition 
