This is a companion story to 
just a few years down the line. Takes place after 'cake' at the conclusion of 
 Stands alone, but it might help with backstory and empathy to read 
 first.
The magic of the street is the mingling of the errand and the epiphany
(Rebecca Solnit)
Twelfth Night. Table for one, as always – that little table tucked away under the stairs at the back of the restaurant. Not so much a booking or a reservation. More of a habit, an understanding, a reassurance. And in that quiet time between New Year and Valentine's Day, that period of the year when evenings and table covers were quietest, his friend would come alone.
Stay alone from evening opening to closing time. Eat slowly and sparingly, read a book or a newspaper, exchange a little quiet conversation. And then drift away, to go home alone.
Angelo Grimaldi, proprietor and head chef at the popular West End Italian restaurant that bore his name, put out the cruets, placed simple red candles in old wine bottles on each table, as he did every day, then put a reserved sign, as usual on Twelfth Night, upon table number twelve. Turned the sign on the door of his restaurant to read 'OPEN' and waited for diners to arrive.
The first person through the door that evening was, as expected, a tall lean man in a dark overcoat.
But this day something was different. Something…not right.
Anglo frowned at the sight, but smoothed out the worry lines on his face for a professional greeting, a broad smile, arms outstretched in welcome.
"Good evening, old friend. Your usual table is ready for you….."
Self contained, impeccably dressed, Sherlock Holmes was a reserved and wraithlike presence. Especially on this one day of the year; but the powerful personality and restless intelligence were quietly muted for once. The edges blurred.
Angelo welcomed his presence, knew and understood why he came when he did, stayed so long. Always quieter than normal on this day, and always alone.
But this year, on this special day….something – everything - was different. And wrong.
Angelo saw and assessed what he was seeing in one slow professional blink. And he did not like what he saw.
The expensive Belstaff overcoat was dirty and unbrushed, needed dry cleaning. While the usual blue cashmere scarf was slung haphazardly around the collar, not neatly looped around the throat. While the man himself…defied description.
This evening he was sweaty, unwashed and needing a shave. Hair unkempt and greasy beneath a strange looking tweed hat of an old fashioned type Angelo had never seen before. This was not right. Everything about this presentation and appearance was not right.
Angelo swallowed hard, overcome with an old sense of protectiveness as he tried to keep the sudden distress out of his eyes, his very stance. He had not seen his friend look like this for a very long time. And he did not like seeing him like this ever again. It reminded him too much of past times. Past trials
The younger man looked, Angelo thought, not himself….almost ill. In remission from something then? Or in withdrawal? Again? Weak, certainly. Distracted.
And yet he had still come to his restaurant on January 6th. And at that thought Angelo felt something warm and protective uncoil within himself.
Sherlock Holmes would say, if he could read Angelo Grimaldi's mind. And perhaps he could. Because now he shook his head a little in greeting, and instead of speaking, pushed his hands forward towards the older man. Hands that held a square pale pink box tied with a pink ribbon.
Angelo frowned. He knew a cake box when he saw one. Especially a high class cake box. But he had never seen one in Sherlock Holmes' hands before.
"You bring your own dessert?" he asked with a laugh. "My tiramisu not good enough for you any longer, 
?"
He often called the younger man by the affectionate, fatherly term 
– boy – for they had been friends for many years, ever since a teenage street rat had turned up on his doorstep stealing leftover food from waste bins but leaving with work, and purpose, and favours exchanged; a fugitive drug user and rent boy using a false name Sherlock Holmes had been then. In the dark days before he transformed into the elegant consulting detective he was now.
But somehow, on this night of the year they always shared, the right word, the teasing and calculating word, 
orapprentice
wasspoken instead of 
to remind them both of those days long past; of mutual support and succour, that very link. A reminder that Angelo remained a trusted friend, a constant, a confidant, if ever, and whenever, one was needed.
He saw the word connect behind Sherlock Holmes' storm grey eyes, the tiny nod of acknowledgement. But no conversation. Just:
"For you."
Sherlock Holmes placed the cake box into his friend's hands and lifted the lid. Inside, unsurprisingly, was a cake. A round rich sponge cake within a pastry case with a simple apple topping.
"What is this? Some English delicacy?"
"Dorset apple courting cake. Yes. Delicious."
"Ah, of course. I forget what a sweet tooth you have, my friend. But I have never seen such a cake before."
"It's an old fashioned thing. Found it in a cake shop this afternoon." The words were offhand, the grin lopsided; a small, almost boyish, embarrassed thing, An apologetic memory connecting past times, not quite shrugged away. "I was taken out for cake. And got this, so brought it along with me….thought you might like it."
"What do you mean: 'taken out for cake'? That is not like you."
"No."
The simple admission came out as a hiss, almost of pain, and Sherlock Holmes sank down onto the chair at his usual table. Leaving the cake box in Angelo Grimaldi's hands.
"What is wrong? Does this mean you are courting? That is why you bring a courting cake?"
It was a feeble attempt at a joke, to lighten the weight he could feel the young man was carrying.
"Don't be ridiculous." A quick look upwards from under darkening brows. "John bought me cake…" the word came out oddly. "… For my birthday." The distaste in the confession was plain. "Take it away and eat it."
"So? Finally he knows?"
"Afraid so." Sherlock Holmes buried his face in the menu; even though he knew it's contents by heart, and always ordered the same for his birthday supper; tortellini primavera. "He guessed."
"Having a friend know the date of your birthday is not weakness."
"What do you know?"
"Stop it." The order was quiet and without stress, yet the dark head before him dipped a little in silent apology. There was a brief silence as Angelo decided whether or not to push past the bounds of their friendship.
"So he is speaking to you again?"
"After a fashion."
"And about time too." Angelo Grimaldi stopped himself from saying more. Did not wait to hear words he knew would only be spoken through the bitterness he could almost taste, and the bitterness that could only spur his friend's fractured response. So he remained silent.
Instead reached a free hand to the service trolley, presented bread sticks and a jug of water. "I get your pasta. You wait."
He took the cake away, and was gone for fifteen minutes, cooked the meal himself. Presented it to table with a professional melodramatic flourish he did not feel he actually needed to perform ….and found someone else seated at the little table, opposite Sherlock Holmes.
"Doctor Watson," Angelo greeted, all professional bonhomie but with eyes so sharp they could have cut paper as he placed the simple meal before the diner. "A pleasure to see you again."
"Hello, Angelo." The greeting was muted, perfunctory.
The restaurateur paused at the doctor's shoulder, waited to see if there would be more conversation. But there was none. The doctor was simply looking hard at the man opposite. Who was quietly ignoring him, silent and self contained and just about in control, despite his dishevelled appearance.
"We were not expecting you, Doctor." The words were not quite criticism, unless someone was looking for that.
"No. Sorry. Yes. I guessed he would be here. So just came to see…."
Angelo Grimaldi registered the discomfort, and also the sense of purpose. Had the two men argued? Fought? Tried to repair their fractured friendship? Today? On discovering the secret of the birthday? He contained his curiosity in professionalism.
You wish something to eat, perhaps?"
"No," the other man shook his head. Thought about it. Looked across to Sherlock Holmes and, Angelo observed, could read nothing in that handsome immobile face, neither dismissive nor welcoming.
Said "Yes. Please" Then: "Whatever he's having, I suppose." Then: "If it's not too much trouble."
"My pleasure, Doctor. A moment."
He looked back at them from the kitchen doorway after he had walked away.
John Watson was leaning forward across the table, talking quietly, earnestly. Sherlock Holmes seemed distant, not looking back, appearing not to be listening.
Something was not right, and it was giving Angelo Grimaldi a headache.
Back inside the kitchen, he found he needed to deliver food to table twelve as quickly as possible; to keep John Watson in his place, to keep Sherlock Holmes distracted from himself, to try and hold together the damage he sensed. So instead of repeating the primavera he filched the fetuccini his nephew Billy had been cooking for the diner at table seven, and was back with Holmes and Watson in moments; certainly before he would have been expected.
"….and what have you done with our cake?" he heard John Watson demand. "Where is it? Dumped in a bin, I suppose? Like you dump everything and anything that might mean something….."
Angelo carefully placed the fetuccini before John Watson with a clatter that silently signalled disapproval.
"Oh. Thanks, Angelo," he spared the restaurateur a little attention. "Looks lovely."
"Hmn."
The restaurateur and the detective exchanged a look; tellingly blank, hauntingly in sync.
Just then the telephone in Sherlock Holmes' pocket sang out, the ring tone that was Greg Lestrade's. And the diner jumped to his feet, leaving his half eaten food to barrel into the kitchen and through to the yard outside, talking into the mobile all the while with a muttered apology of: "Need privacy. Back soon. A case…."
Angelo left table twelve and followed him as far as the outside door. Looked through the window at the man leaning against the corner of the store shed, talking with concentrated animation into his phone; saw the lean expressive back turned away from him, bent and weighed down now without an audience to perform to, weak and exhausted, not erect and proud. Without the normally enveloping overcoat he could see the suit was rumpled and stained, hanging off his bones.
Not himself, then. But so much the distressed, exhausted boy he had once been, and Angelo had known, and who now threw the stupid hat off his head onto the ground and dragged a hand back through his filthy overlong hair.
Angelo had a sudden strong image in his mind of the skinny bedraggled and starving boy he had first met almost twenty years before, and he felt his hot Italian heart might break with anger and the pity of it all.
But instead he sighed, turned back into the kitchen. Took something from a drawer under the bar, then lifted the pink box.
When he returned to table twelve he carried two plates of apple courting cake and a dish of clotted cream on a tray. Silently scooped up the two used dinner plates and put the smaller cake plates in their place.
"Thank you, Angelo. That was good. Think I needed that." John Watson smiled his best smile, looked beyond the man with the food and frowned a little.
"Sherlock is still outside. Still talking to Mr Lestrade. Must be at least a seven, I'd say. He will return soon."
"Yeah. Of course."
Angelo stood by the table for a moment, unusually indecisive, then sat down in Sherlock Holmes' chair.
"Your dessert. This is your apple courting cake. Not dumped. Left safely with me. While he ate his main course. You OK with that?"
Angelo struggled to keep the irritation and censure out of his voice, but John Watson heard it all the same.
"You think a cake is a cheapskate present? For someone like Sherlock?"
The restaurateur tilted his head in silent reply, professionally non-committal.
"Not that it's any of your business, but….."
Stung, the words to the thoughts came out then, regardless.
"Sherlock hates every weakness he sees within himself; even such a human, unimportant weakness, as eating a slice of cake. He understands too well that if he allows himself human indulgences, he will have to pay the price. Karma.
"Such is his character, his experience, his lessons from life. A cake is no gift. Not to him. " Angelo Grimaldi paused for a moment, watched the doctor listen, absorb his words without rancour, acknowledge their truth, so continued: "And you really thought a cake would do? Repay all you owe him?"
That hit home, and he watched John Watson bite his lip, shake his head.
"No….I…..you're right." He looked up and met the molasses brown eyes looking at him so intently. "You have known Sherlock a long time. Longer than me. Know more about his past than I do and – lately - his present too. No…." he held up his hands in entreaty before Angelo could reply… "Before you say it: I know that's my fault."
"I have treated him unfairly. Been wallowing in grief for…Mary, for my life…for too many things. For too long. Blaming him. But Angelo…." He put out a hand across the table to briefly touch the wrist of the man sitting opposite. "Would you believe me if I tell you that I didn't even know today was his birthday until this afternoon?"
"So?" He tried not to sound sceptical or cynical; but he was an emotional Italian, and he knew hiding emotion was often beyond him.
"It was just another of those things he would never tell me, Angelo. You know what he's like: so private. Striving to be anything but human. And celebrating a birthday is a very human thing to do. So he doesn't."
"Yes. I know."
John Watson looked up at Angelo Grimaldi and finally allowed himself a smile. A smile of mutual awareness they were suddenly sharing of the man they both knew too well. In their different ways.
"But I sat opposite him in Baker Street this afternoon and just sort of worked it out."
"Really?"
"Yes. Really." John Watson looked across Angelo's bulk to make sure Sherlock Holmes was not approaching, dropped the tension in his shoulders before confiding: "I was at Baker Street this afternoon. Babysittng. Babysitting Sherlock, not Rosie, for once. He…hasn't been well. In hospital."
"Yes. I can see as much."
"So I sat there with him. As he was silent and absent from me, away in his mind palace. Looking round, like you do. Spotted a pile of envelopes he hadn't opened sitting by the fireplace, ready to be burnt. Obviously Christmas cards. Dust and ash had settled on them.
"But alongside was another little pile, clearly new. One was addressed in Mycroft's writing. Another was Mrs Hudson's. Neither had stamps on. Not much in the way of detective work, but even so…." He smiled again as he said it, and this time Angelo nodded, and smiled back.
"I challenged him, and he admitted it. So I wished him a happy birthday. We had a little chat…." John Watson flushed a little at the memory of that. Angelo pretended not to notice, but wondered. Apologies? Confessions? Admissions of mutual affection, perhaps? Forgiveness? A manly hug, even? "And so I took him out to a teashop for cake. Me and Rosie and a friend."
"So where is your little 
"
"Staying with that friend for a couple of days; Rosie's godmother. They are great chums."
He smiled warmly, then looked away, as if embarrassed by something. "So, you see, the only chance I had to get him a birthday present on the right day was…to buy him a cake."
And now Angelo Grimaldi understood. He nodded gravely. Thought for a moment.
"So you wish to give your friend a proper birthday present? Now you know the date of his birthday?"
"Of course I do! Make up for lost chances. Show him…how much I appreciate his friendship. I owe him a lot. Big time."
"Yes," was the reply. And there was too much meaning in that one word.
John Watson laughed a little, self conscious about his confession. "Not that I have any idea what to get a man like Sherlock Holmes as a gift!"
In reply Angelo Grimaldi took something rolled into a red paper napkin from his apron pocket and placed it very deliberately across the table in front of John Watson.
"What is that?"
"Open it and see."
So he did. Taking from the soft tissue something rather like the shaft of a pen; a brass thing of intricate tooling with scrollwork engraving, and, at the business end, not a nib, but a square holder containing something sharp and delicate protruding that looked like glass.
"What is it? It looks Victorian, and precious. Something special."
"Special, yes. It is a glass cutting tool. Very old. It was my father's, and his father's before that."
"Really?"
John Watson turned the exquisite yet practical thing in his hands, made to give it back. But Angelo Grimaldi shook his head.
"No, no: I have no use for it." He smiled, almost apologetic now. "You only know me as a chef and a man who owns a popular restaurant. But my family business is something else. I admit this to you now. My family business is what you might think to be unusual. Generations of housebreakers and cat burglars, pickpockets and thieves, the Grimaldi's. We are famous for it. As Sherlock well knows. "
"When I first met you, he said he got you off a murder charge," John Watson recalled, thoughtfully. "Because he proved to the police you had been housebreaking elsewhere. One hell of an alibi."
"Indeed so. And very true. And it was because of Sherlock I went straight after that. Full time straight. Turned over a new leaf, as they say. So I owe him my better career. My successful law abiding career! Another reason why we are friends. Through thick and thin"
"But what has that got to do with me? And this glass cutter?"
"You now understand why I do not need this little tool any more? But Sherlock….he will make good use of this glass cutter. When he is breaking and entering himself. But for the right reasons, of course! An addition to the toolroll he keeps in the poacher's pocket of that coat of his."
And he grinned and nodded towards the Belstaff, draped over the back of the chair in which he now sat.
"It is, I think, a perfect birthday gift he will both use and appreciate. So you will give it to him. Your gift."
"No, Angelo! I can't do that! You should give it to him. It is yours, and it is precious."
Angelo Grimaldi smiled, a quiet, sad little smile, and shook his head.
"He comes to me for refuge on his birthday, always. Every January the sixth, on his birthday, he come here, to me. So that he is not home to any callers wishing him well, or wanting to surprise him with gifts or even – God forbid – a birthday party.
"So he sits here quietly the entire evening and we leave him here alone. He is given no bill, no cake with candles, no songs or slaps on the back. Although we really want to do all these things. That privacy is my birthday gift to him, over the years, and it is enough. You understand?
John Watson rolled the glass cutter in his hands, nodded once, but did not look up.
"That is a diamond tipped glass cutter," Angelo explained. ". The best thing to cut glass. You know the phrase 'diamond cut diamond'? That is you two, I think. Shining bright, yet harder than stone. Diamond cuts diamond. You are equals, in your own way. You work together, better together than apart."
He drew a breath before continuing:
"I know all that has happened between you over the past few months; the death and the grief, the anger and the danger. I know, and I see, but it is not for me to judge. But it is for me to tell you to stop all that, now. Turn the page and move on. For it is a truth about you two; when diamond cuts diamond you hurt yourself as much as you hurt each other. And this cannot go on, Doctor John Watson."
"Stop it, Angelo."
"Of course. I speak out of place. I am merely a man who makes meals to make people happy. But I know people. When I first met you, here with Sherlock – with a Sherlock who had never dined here with a companion – I thought you were his date. There was, even then, such a clear connection between you both; 
 as we say in Italy: empathy and sympathy.
"That thing, my friend, is too rare and too precious to deny. Especially for men like you and Sherlock. Brave and clever men.
"So you will give this little thing to Sherlock. As a peace offering if you will, but mainly as his birthday gift, from you, to him. But first, as a token also, from me to you, to celebrate friendship and partnership and justice. And then you will let this little thing cut through the pain, cut out the grief and let the wound, all the wounds you share, heal."
He stood suddenly, slammed both hands down onto the table, leant forward. And laughed at himself.
"Listen to me! I know I am just a sentimental old Italian! But humour me with this, if you please." And then he laughed down at John Watson, and clapped him on the shoulder.
"…..and that is the secret of the perfect tiramisu." He changed the subject so quickly it made John Watson blink up at him in surprise. "Which I may just show you how to make yourself. The next time you come to see me…"
For he had seen Sherlock Holmes coming, and moved smoothly away from the table so the consulting detective could sit down in his place again.
"All OK, 
he asked, as if there could be any other answer but 'yes.'
"Fine. Lestrade has a case for me. A double murder. I'm to meet him at the morgue at Bart's in the morning."
"You are fit for that?"
"No," he said honestly. "But there is nothing like work as therapy." He looked up and grinned. And the old manic sparkle was suddenly back in his eyes. The impetus of the work that cut through the exhaustion and the pain and the withdrawal. "You want to come with me, John?"
The invitation came out so natural and instinctive, and Angelo Gimaldi watched the doctor's eyes light up, speedwell blue and shining with something behind them that had been absent for too long.
"Eat your cake," Angelo ordered, hiding his smirk of satisfaction as he drifted quietly away.
For the rest of the evening work took over; twenty seven covers including an anniversary party kept him occupied. But he also kept an eye on table twelve.
Where there was nothing to see, not really. Just two men quietly eating cake with clotted cream, drinking tea, chatting easily and without restraint or self consciousness.
Two men who stood in new accord to leave together at the end of the evening, when all the other diners had gone, and the restaurant was quiet again.
Angelo bustled over to them.
"All was satisfactory, yes? You wait while I fetch your cake to take home?"
Sherlock Holmes smiled down at him then; and it was that rare and simple boyish smile, that took years and the normal protective impassive facade from his face.
"Think I have had more than enough cake for today, thanks," he said. "Share the cake between you all with a cuppa before you close up and head off home for the night. Share my birthday."
"That is not like you."
"True. But today has probably been my best birthday ever, considering. And has also been a bit of an epiphany on Epiphany."
"What is Epiphany anyway?" John Watson asked as the three men hovered in the doorway.
"An unexpected revelation," Sherlock Holmes said with a grin, just as Angelo Grimaldi explained: "Ask a good Italian Catholic boy! The day the three kings, the three wise men, brought their gifts…."
"A gift," Sherlock Holmes interrupted. "Even if we three barely class as three wise men…."
Drew the toolroll from the deep inner pocket of his coat, untied it, and revealed the glass cutter, stored safely in an elastic sleeve. "A birthday gift from John."
Angelo Grimaldi saw the relaxed smile directed at the doctor, the sharp look that then came his way.
He knows, the restaurateur realized. He knows the glass cutter was mine, and I gave it to John to give again. And he understands, and it has quietened something deep in his soul…..
"Just what I needed," Sherlock Holmes continued smoothly. "I shall use it wisely and well." There was a small nod of acknowledgement, a light in his eye especially for his oldest friend. "Good job you taught me how to use such a thing… so long ago."
"I have no idea what you are talking about! It is just Epiphany."
There was a moment of many things unspoken, unifying and sharing. Of maturity and wisdom and acceptance. A moment Sherlock Holmes broke.
"It's also Twelfth Night; the night of merriment and misrule. Perhaps that is more appropriate. Always one hell of a date for a birthday!"
"Bloody typical of you," John Watson grumbled good naturedly; and it was suddenly like the old days. Times gone and past, times before angst and agony and despair. Times, Angelo risked thinking….good times that were returning. But he did not say so. Did not want to tempt Fate or ruin the delicacy of the moment.
"I prefer the play Twelfth Night," Sherlock Holmes continued smoothly. "Shakespeare got it right when he said 'a murderer's guilt is easier to hide than feelings of love.' We'll sort that one out at Bart's tomorrow. Won't we, John?"
"Yeah; as long as you don't want me to spout poetry, that is."
"God forbid!"
The mood was suddenly so easy, so natural – and so different from earlier in the evening – Angelo Grimaldi could feel tears spiking behind his eyes.
"What's the matter with you?" Sherlock Holmes demanded. He had noticed.
"Absolutely nothing, 
It has been a long day. And I still have paperwork to do, staff rotas to organize for tomorrow, washing up….and now, it seems, cake to eat."
"Then we won't keep you any longer," Sherlock Holmes said. Huffed a gasping breath as the solid Italian flung his arms around him in a brief, hard hug. But he was grinning now, his cheeks pink with surprise and something like embarrassment.
"Stop that, you tart."
"Cake. Just cake," the older man muttered on a bubble of laughter; he had surprised himself.
"Go home!" he added, gesturing the two men away.
He turned to John Watson.
"Thank you for coming. I shall see you again soon, I am sure."
John Watson grinned at him, shook his hand.
"No-one makes magical meals like you. And I look forward to that cookery lesson…."
"But of course, for you both!" he laughed. And added. "
"Sorry, what?"
But the Italian shook his head; he had risked a comment he hoped the doctor did not understand.
"Cheeky!" remonstrated Sherlock Holmes, who did: an old Italian saying: 
"What?" John Watson quizzed.
"Nothing much. Might translate it for you later…."
They crossed the threshold and walked off into the night; and Angelo Grimaldi watched them go.
"
he called after them. After Sherlock Holmes. Idiot! Fool!
John Watson looked back over his shoulder and waved. Sherlock Holmes did not look back, but waggled a hand behind him; it might have been a wave or a rude gesture. Angelo, laughing aloud, chose to read it as a rude gesture.
"
!" he called back. "My hero!"
Two words drifted back to him:
"
As if!
Angelo Grimaldi laughed out loud. Closed the door, turned the lock, shot the bolts.
Turned back into his restaurant and regarded his staff, busy clearing up after an evening's trade.
"Come! We have a birthday to celebrate! And we have cake!"
END
Angelo is one of my favourite minor characters in Sherlock; I love the idea of an Italian restaurateur who is also an accomplished house breaker and clearly has a very colorful past. But mainly and also because the actor who portrayed him in A Study In Pink, Stanley Townsend, is another wonderful Irish actor. He gave a blazing performance as Warwick The Kingmaker in the BBC's Shakespeare series, The Hollow Crown.
..
