"…you may think you're above me; what you think isn't always true.
Don't try to debate me…still you try to manipulate me…."
(Paul Simon)
He opened the sliding glass doors from sitting room to kitchen slowly and cautiously. He was being so careful, had entered 221B soft footed and wary. So quietly did he move from one room to the other the tall lean man working at the kitchen table jolted backwards in surprise as he entered.
"Oh, bloody hell!" the man almost shouted, startled. "It's you."
"Of course it's me," was the disdainful reply, low with something that might have been a civilised version of exasperation. "Who were you expecting?"
"Well…" came the reply, reasonably enough. "Sherlock, I suppose. Shezza…."
The other man drew one arm from inside a deep cardboard box and gestured vaguely with the long grubby hand that emerged.
Mycroft Holmes stilled and risked a glance back into the room he had just left, overflowing with the same chaos of strings and paperwork and press cuttings arrayed like crazed bunting, and stepped closer to Bill Wiggins, shutting the sliding doors very gently behind himself.
"You'll have to make do with me, Wiggins," he said. "I want you out of here. Immediately. You and all the disgusting contents of this…this…." Words failed him momentarily.
"Crack den," Bill Wiggins supplied helpfully. "Yes. I mean – no. I mean – don't worry, Mr Holmes. I'm taking it apart. Packing up. I've a van coming in about ten minutes to collect me and all this stuff. Told Shezza I would."
He risked an ingratiating grin, got no response and certainly no warmth, and shrugged, genuinely indifferent. He had met Sherlock Holmes' older brother several times before – had indeed shared a disastrous Christmas holiday neither ever referred to – and remained unimpressed and undaunted by Sherlock's older brother.
"So if you don't mind, Mr Holmes, I'd better – ha –" he grinned mischievously at the irony of his words. "Crack on."
And with a nod and the ghost of another empty smile, he crumpled old newspaper around the scientific glassware of his dubious trade and finished filling the box.
"This place is a disgrace," Mycroft Holmes remarked. "Disgusting. As are you. Drugs dealer. Supplier. Maker…."
"I'll have you know, Mr Holmes," William Cornelius Wiggins drew himself up to his full height and sniffed nonchalantly with an unconscious confidence that irritated Mycroft Holmes more than he would ever think to admit. "I am a trained chemist and I know what I am doing. Not that making crack cocaine is hard…."
"In that case I have never seen a greater waste of a chemistry degree," The comment was meant to be scathing, but bounced away instead.
"Yeah? Well, I've heard that one before."
Wiggins – a tall, gaunt man with dark hair, darker eyes, and the sallow grey skin of a drug addict that made him look older than his years, but with a tense, alert physicality at odds with the rest of him, nodded and grinned. "However…." He waited until he had Mycroft Holmes' attention before he spoke again. "However, who I am and what I do has suited your brother. So I must be doing something right. Yeah?"
"Most definitely not." The British Government attempted to look down his nose at a man as tall as he was, but found it hard; Wiggins was as impossible to put in his place as he was to quantify. "To have taken advantage of his…weakness…for your own ends; to have turned his home into a manufacturing plant for your drugs enterprise…..is an obscenity." Mycroft Holmes was having trouble containing his anger and his disgust.
"Oi!"
"I have never had any sympathy for my brother's lapses into drugs and paranoia, and I don't have now," he continued, ignoring the brief interruption. "So to see you taking advantage of him at this time…."
"Oi!" Wiggins repeated, louder this time. "Shut up for one bloody minute and let me get a word in, will you?"
He shook his head, glared at this entitled man as tall and lean as himself. Yet who was a world apart in every way; every way except for their closeness to Sherlock Holmes.
"You are being far too snooty and superior, mate. And what is worse than that, you are making snap judgements without ascertaining the facts. Sherlock would be ashamed of you, now wouldn't he?"
"I never…." Myroft Holmes spluttered, speechless for once when faced with an alien being who would not be quelled.
"Yes you do. All the time, Judge Sherlock, judge me. And it ain't on, mate. It really ain't."
He closed the top of one box, placed it on the floor by his side, picked up another. Mycroft watched and decided he would not like to speculate on the contents of the various bags and flasks, just relieved they were being taken away.
"Oh? Should I beg your pardon then, Mr Wiggins? For being so presumptuous?"
"Ooh, you and your clever words. Thinking I won't understand them. But yes, quite right. Beg my pardon? Yeah, why not? Beg Sherlock's while you're at it. Still sulking because we managed to drug you and your mum and dad one Christmas? And that I was there to see it? Part of it, in fact. Shame on you."
The sound of newspaper crunching, being applied as packing, filled the room while Mycroft Holmes stood and fumed, tried to think of a suitable reply, but watched the crack den slowly disappear around him, order being partially restored at least.
" I was coming here today to remove all this….detritus," he finally said as archly as possible..
"No, you weren't," Wiggins was affable now, but not in agreement. "If you had been you would have brought all those faceless heavies of yours, those blank faced men in suits, to do your dirty work for you. Like you tried before when all this kicked off. You came here today to have a go at your brother and be superior. As always. 'Cos you just don't get it, do you?"
"Get 'it'? Get what?" he asked, when he could stand the silence no longer.
"Me. Here. This stuff. So go on – ask me. Ask me what we were doing here. Have been doing here, to be correct. Grammatically, that is."
Mycroft stood and silently fumed. It was in his nature to hate not knowing something – anything. And especially to not know what this insolent creature of the streets knew. About 221B. About Sherlock. And what had been happening in the last few difficult and despairing weeks, during which his brother had blocked every telephone call or contact he had tried to make.
"Nooooo" Wiggins smiled a little, dragged the word out to fill the other man's silence. "Clearly you don't know. And you do need to know, don't you? So you may genuinely have come today to sort stuff. The stuff that especially offends you. But really that's your excuse for being nosey."
"And what makes you think that?"
"Never seen you outside a three piece suit before. With not even that umbrella to protect yourself with. No indeed. But look at you now - poncey lovat cords, military sweater, conker bright brogues. Very fetching, if I may venture an opinion. Elegant. Your idea of gear to wear while off duty. And for tidying your brother's flat? Possibly. At a push."
Mycroft Holmes lifted his head in silent disdain and pulled himself up to his full height.
"So you 
 ashamed of what you reckon your brother has been up to," Bill Wiggins continued, observing. Sharp of eye and sharp of tongue in a way Mycroft Holmes had never noticed before and found oddly disconcerting now. "And so of course you don't want anyone else – especially your minions – to see what he has been up to."
"And just what has he been up to?" The arch tone, the moue of distaste, were to draw out information he did not have, facts he did not know. It usually worked. "Apart from succumbing to drugs again. Yet again. When he really should know better by now."
"Oh, mate, you really do have no idea what he's been up to, do you? No fucking idea."
Wiggins shook his head in disbelief, bit back the start of a superior smile and what he might have said next, and returned to his packing.
Mycroft Holmes repressed a moment of near panic. Martha Hudson had said much the same thing, just moments ago. And had left him feeling just as unsettled, disconcerted.
Did everyone on earth know his little brother and his actions better than he did? Or was he simply missing something?
o0o0o
She had bustled along the hall from her own flat as he let himself in through the black front door with a key he had never been given.
Having hoped to be able to sneak in unnoticed, he paused impatiently at the bottom of the stairs out of an ingrained veneer of politeness. Waited for her to reach him, but ready to stride straight up the stairs if she became confrontational. Almost, he thought analytically of himself, as if he expected her to berate him, flick him round the ear with a tea towel, perhaps; tell him what she thought of him, this tiny birdlike harridan and protector of little brothers hiding behind a cross over pinny and a gentle smile.
The last time he had been inside 221, Baker Street, with his grey men in grey suits to expunge all the latest sins of Sherlock Holmes - his drugs and his dross and his dramas - she had thrown them all out, had snarled: "Get out of my house. You reptile," at him. And the echoes of that quiet vehemence still rolled around his brain.
"What are you doing here, Mycroft Holmes?" she had demanded. Readied for combat.
"Please, Mrs Hudson." He had raised his hands in polite entreaty, all too aware he was invading her space, and all without the protection and barrier his rolled umbrella usually presented. "Pax, dear lady…."
"Don't 'dear lady' me, you patronising….."
"Yes, yes, I think we may avoid the verbal abuse this time, don't you? Take it as read? We do in fact have the same interest at heart."
Her dubious expression spoke volumes.
"Sherlock," he hurried to add.
She tilted her head at him, still not quite believing.
"Really?" she asked. More than dubious.
Yes, really." He had not meant to snap, show weakness. But honestly! Being intimidated by an old lady who seemed to not only read him like a book, but made it quite clear she didn't like what she saw: whatever did Sherlock see in her?
He sighed, felt his lips twisting in what should have been disdain but probably looked more like indigestion.
"So why are you here? To lecture and complain? Last thing he needs."
"No. Not this time. Thought he might need help…" he waved a hand vaguely. "Clearing up. That sort of thing. Unless you have already….?"
"Not his housekeeper," she answered curtly. "And anyway, when he left here I didn't know what was going to happen. To him. And neither did he. So of course I left everything as it was."
"Yes. Thank you. I do see. But he solved the case; the parlous state of the flat is no longer necessary. So I came to…..help tidy," he ended lamely.
He could see she still did not believe him. And hearing such lame words from out of his own mouth…he wasn't sure he believed himself either.
"But I do want to thank you," he continued hurriedly. "For phoning. Telling me what he was up to. That he had gone to locate Dr Watson and bring his latest case to a head."
"Don't thank me. It was part of his plan. I was only doing what I was told." She shrugged, still not giving an inch. "Hadn't expected to have to turn his own gun on him and put him in the car boot to get him there, but, well…." She smiled a little at the memory; Mycroft Holmes made a mental note to ask about that later.
"He was further down the slippery slope than we'd expected, but managed to give our agreed signal for me to step in; 'the game's afoot.' He was being a right smackhead, if you must know. But there; it turned out all right in the end."
He started to speak, but she interrupted him.
"Of course it would have been easier if you hadn't rung me back while I was driving. So thanks for getting me off the speeding charge."
"And dangerous driving. And using a mobile at the wheel…" he added quietly.
"Not my fault," she pointed out. "You rang me."
"Just so. My responsibility to clear things with that policeman, then." He smiled at her – a proper smile, not his official smile – and she nodded her recognition of that and unbent a little.
"But why ring to tell me in the first place?" he ventured, sensing that slight thaw in her antagonism.
"So you would know, of course," she said with quiet deliberation, as if to a child. "I told you. He had his case, and a plan. Part of that plan was for me to get him to John and draw him in, kick him into gear, get him working again. So they could catch Culverton Smith together. Wasn't that obvious?"
"Yes, of course. What I wonder is how – and why - he used you. He was – still is for all I know – drugged up to the eyeballs; as they say. Out of it."
"Oh dear. You really don't know your brother very well, do you?" She patted him on the arm in something that might have been pity. "This was Mary Watson's case, so he could not refuse. To save John Watson. By taking on a case and risk his life to kick John back to life. To make John save him; save himself by saving Sherlock. Bring him back to himself. And us."
She saw his blank incomprehension, tutted at him and continued.
"You saw that video message she left. What she demanded of him. Knowing he would not fail her.
"Well, I've seen that video three times now, and it still strikes me just how bloody selfish she was. She knew he wouldn't let her down, knew that, even if it killed him, he would save John Watson. And it nearly did. Kill him, I mean.
"Of course, Sherlock, knew the risk. Chasing down that little creep of a serial killer. He still did it. Needed you to know what he was doing by then, and why. In case he didn't come back."
"My dear lady; that ridiculous plan was nothing but the ramblings of a drug addict."
She didn't bother to contradict him. Simply pinched his cheek like an elderly aunt. And put a roll of black bin liners into his hand before turning away.
"Put your money where your mouth is," he heard her say as she left him alone at the bottom of the stairs.
o0o0o
And now here he was, as vaguely disconcerted talking to Wiggins as he had been talking to her. This was not normal. No indeed.
It made him feel uninformed and inadequate. And at something of a loss. Not that he would ever admit that.
So he stood and watched Wiggins complete his packing, heard Mrs Hudson answer a knock at the front door, say: "Oh, it's you, dear. Go on up," Count the light quick steps on the stairs, and look questioningly at the tall young woman who came into the kitchen with the ease of someone familiar with her surroundings and with purpose.
"Hiya, Wiggs; oh, hello Mr Holmes. Doing all right?"
She was slim and athletic, long shining light auburn hair, humorous brown eyes, a warm smile. And was dressed in parka, polo necked sweater, skinny denims and Doc Marten boots.
"Ah…good morning," Mycroft Holmes greeted automatically, tried a polite smile in response to a genuine one. "You know who I am?"
"'Course! Shezza's brother," she answered pragmatically. "Seen you here often. Not that you will have noticed me. Jeannie Jordan," She stuck out a hand for Mycroft to shake, and he did so before he realised what he was doing. She saw that, and the friendly smile became a cheerful disarming grin.
"I take it you are also a member of Sherlock's homeless network?" he asked.
"Was. Once. Got my own van now, do deliveries. Making a living. Own flat, even."
"How nice for you."
Yeah. It is, actually. Thanks to your brother. Not that I would expect you to understand about being homeless." She saw his blank look of incomprehension, bit her lip. "He wouldn't want you to know, of course. But when he found I could drive, he lent me money to buy a van, get work, somewhere to live."
Mycroft Holmes started to shake his head in disbelief.
"He said no-one would believe me if I said anything; you especially. So I never have, until now. Think you should know, though. Don't you? Know what he's like, I mean."
"Why? What do….?"
She looked at her watch, picked up three large cardboard boxes effortlessly.
"Sorry, got to go; I'm parked on yellow lines…."
It was an honest excuse, but he could not be certain if she was really worried about confronting a traffic warden or simply wanted to be out of his presence. The latter, he thought. He was not Sherlock and lacked the street credibility his brother wore with ease, understanding, and complete lack of embarrassment.
"Thank you; yes," he said, somewhere between grateful and awkward, and followed them down the stairs as far as the half landing, watching them leave – making sure they left. Jeannie slipped out first with a vague "See you later," followed by Wiggins.
Who was half out of the door, the last cardboard box hitched on one hip, when he paused, turned back, looked up the stairs to make eye contact.
"Oh yeah. Nearly forgot. You'll be taking down all the photos and cuttings and stuff?"
"I expect so, yes."
"Well, when you do….can you keep all the string? The yarn and tape and stuff?"
"Whyever….?"
"It might sound daft," Wiggins shrugged, a little discomforted at feeling a need to mention such an insignificant thing. "But Sherlock was very particular about all that string."
"How it was used to link the different cases you mean? The way he connected the timelines and reports? The evidence trails?"
"Yeah, If you like," Wiggins frowned, sighed, finally admitted what he was trying to say. "Well, no. I mean, obviously they all join up like that from out of his head, but what I mean is….there is something important about the string itself."
"I beg your pardon?"
"Sherlock sent me out to get the string he needed for all this process. Was very particular about it, too. He didn't care what sort of string it was – ribbon, wool, yarn, gift tape, whatever – but it had to be pink."
"Pink?" Mycroft Holmes heard himself make a noise somewhere between a snort and a splutter. At the ridiculous and utter absurdity of such a stipulation. How very Sherlock! And yet how very illogical and unreasonable of Sherlock when off his head on drugs… because he was off his head on drugs. Had been for weeks. Wiggins saw the disgust on the older brother's face.
"Yeah. I thought so too. That it was Sherlock…just being,.. well…Sherlock. Letting the drugs give him mad fantasies and weird obsessions. You know?"
Mycroft stood on the stairs, clenched the handrail to stop himself from exclaiming something weak and revealing.
"Yes," he said, one word speaking volumes and the disillusionment of years.
"I tried to talk him out of it; I knew it was going to be a right wild goose chase to find so much pink stuff. But he was determined. And bloody obstinate about it. He did say something weird, though. About you. About why he wanted pink string."
"About me?" Mycroft Holmes was floundering; felt idiotic to be echoing Wiggins' words. "What about me? He had a pink related case, of course, but years ago now. That was nothing to do with me." He could hear himself blabbering. Gathered together some disdain. "Pink is really not my colour."
Wiggins barked out an uncomfortable laugh he could not resist, an attempt at levity.. "You sure?" And hurried on before a glare that could, he thought, curdle milk.
"He said the string had to be pink for you. Because if he didn't come back you would appreciate the pink and you would understand. I didn't have a clue what he meant when he said it and I still don't."
Mycroft Holmes' bland expression concealed a mind working furiously.
"What else did he say?"
"Not much. I know when Shezza puts his foot down, so I went out and found pink string as ordered. Took a while." He grinned suddenly. "It was a lot easier finding the sealing wax, of course. An Amazon prime order sorted that …didn't even know you could still get such old fashioned stuff."
"Always used on official documents, a sign of authority, to show paperwork has not been tampered with, impressing a seal shows who sent or authorised it. The Crown still uses different colours to denote different types of paperwork," Mycroft recited, somewhat distantly.
"Fancy that," Wiggins commented. But his heart was not in it. He had packed away and removed all his drug making equipment, as he had promised Sherlock he would, and had passed on the information he had needed to. Was more than ready to leave.
He did not understand the significance, but it had been important to Shezza, and he had known the difference between quiet words and murmured instructions, between hypodermic syringes and the rantings of Shakespearean speeches, knew all about imaginary visitors, the brandishing of guns and rampaging around the rooms of 221B.
"Sealing wax is pretty good for sticking up strings," he added. "But not as easy as sticky tape or blu-tack. You need a cigarette lighter to melt off a gobbet of the stuff, and then something to push onto the hot wax to secure it; he just used his knuckles, but grumbled that he really needed a signet ring like yours to do the job. So you'd believe he really did all that….set decoration. As he called it."
"Set decoration? Ah." Mycroft Holmes glanced down at the gold signet ring on the little finger of his left hand, which he lifted a little. "My ring is a family heirloom. The Vernet family crest. Always worn by the oldest son. Didn't realise Sherlock had ever even thought about it."
He nodded, pleased and oddly touched at the thought. And then a flash of inspiration made the connection between the pink string and the sealing wax.
Bill Wiggins watched Mycroft Holmes freeze, leaving the gesturing hand bearing the signet ring in mid air.
"Something wrong?" he asked, concerned he might have forgotten something. Or had genuinely upset or angered the normally glacial older brother.
"No. Not at all, thank you. I just….." He drew in a deep breath, shook his head in something between horror and disbelief at his thoughts.
" Pink string and sealing wax. Used by Victorian chemists to wrap parcels of pills and medicines. To say what the contents were, and that they were official. Not been tampered with."
"Oh. Right. Glad I remembered to tell you then," Wiggins said, and it was clear he still had no idea what was suddenly so important or why; what was making such a difference to the older man's very bearing.
But all that was nothing to do with him now, and he was relieved. Both the Holmes brothers were scary, even if in completely different ways, Mycroft most scary of all: invariably stern or sardonic, impossible to read, a cold fish. Usually.
He waited for five long seconds, waited for a reply that did not come.
"Gotta go," he said eventually, too loud and cheerful; Mycroft Holmes seemed to have retreated into a mind palace of his own, just as Sherlock always used to. "Jeannie's waiting; and I've just heard her start the van."
"What? Oh, yes. Thank you, Bill."
The politeness and the use of his name unsettled William Cornelius Wiggins even more.
"No problem. Glad to help. Give my regards to Shezza. Until the next time." The trite phrases fell from his mouth uneasily. But finally he found his final words so he could close the door, leave the house, put himself and his chattels into Jeannie Jordan's van.
"'Bye, Mike. See you around."
And he was gone.
For a moment longer Mycroft Holmes hovered on the half landing before turning and stepping back up the four stairs to the flat. Back into the kitchen via the corridor.
Thanks to Wiggins and Jeannie Jordan, all the glassware and the scientific equipment for manufacturing drugs had gone, but the room still looked like the den of a crazy person; an evidence wall that had vomited into three explosive dimensions like an out of control volcano. Strings festooned dangerously around the kitchen; from wall to wall and across the ceiling like Christmas streamers or holiday bunting. Tied or looped onto shelf brackets and window latches, door knobs and cooker switches, even knotted between table legs.
Images of the ugly little goblin face of Culverton Smith; photographs, press clippings, article print outs, press releases and more hung from the strings on clips and pegs and lengths of yellowing sticky tape draped like fly paper; fly paper to trap a serial murderer.
Mycroft stood in the centre of what was still chaos and a fire hazard, disconsolately registered how the sitting room was even worse.
He had seen the mess and morass 221B had become under the influence of Sherlock under the influence of drugs. He had seen this sort of mess many times before; when his brother had given in to his cravings for oblivion and limbo, the darkness and desperation of drugs.
He didn't like it. He never had. And this time, this lapse into the void, had angered him more than ever.
John Watson had been brought in – allowed in - all those years ago to distract Sherlock from his drugs and dissolution. And it had worked; until it didn't. Until marriage and a new life took John Watson away just as Sherlock Holmes came back to life after death.
And after that there had been bullets and blood and grief, in some sort of self perpetuating circle.. while the anger and impotence of knowing there was nothing he could do to intercede or to help tormented him; unable to save his brother from life and from himself, however hard he tried. And now it was as if capturing Culverton Smith had brought everything awful to a head.
A week ago; four days ago; the day before yesterday…..one bloody crisis after another. And never being allowed close enough to help, to stop the worst from happening. Yet it nearly had happened this time. Sherlock had almost died. Almost killed himself with drugs; almost killed by Culverton Smith and his mania for playing with dead bodies, after making bodies dead.
He had stood in the middle of the sitting room and shouted at hisbaby brother; admitting to himself, making it very visible…that he was terrified. Terrified Sherlock was disappearing back into the void of drugs he was too old for yet too attuned to, and that he could not – would not - stop this time until he was dead.
That was, had always been, Mycroft's greatest fear. That he would lose his brother for all the wrong reasons. So three times in the past few weeks he had shouted and stormed, in a way he never normally allowed himself to
This time the drugtaking was too disturbing. There was a still and fierce deliberation about Sherlock's drug taking now; a cold and terrible intent that scared Mycroft like never before. There was nothing impulsive or louche about the lapse into drugs this time. It was a cold and a concentrated drug taking, dour and determined, nothing of escape or pleasure to be seen. As if he wanted to kill himself. As if he didn't matter.
Mycroft had looked at the atypical grubbiness, the dirty hair, the wanton dishevelment, the filthy clothes, and – more than anything – the careless bruises of track marks lining both skeletal blue veined arms. And he tried hard not to lecture and panic, he really did.
For now there was neither devilment nor deftness in the drug taking, no carefree indifference. No John Watson to keep eyes on him, to drag him back from the edge of the pit.
And the more he saw the cold deliberation of this latest bout of drug taking, the angrier and the more frightened he became. The more he berated his brother…the more determined the brother became. Both brothers became.
He did not dare scream. 
Shut up, Mycroft, the baby brother had said. I'm fine, he had said. It's for a case. Go away. Sherlock Holmes said what he always said. His brother was not convinced.
This time was a time too many. This time Sherlock would die; he knew it. Knew it because of the cold pit in his stomach, the shoddy evidence before his eyes, the indifference to his own suffering his brother was exhibiting; day by day, week into week. And it could not go on.
Mycroft tried to hold on to his calm exterior, but his anger kept breaking through. His anger at the ridiculous grief being displayed for a cold blooded assassin. Anger at John Watson's selfishness. Anger at the existence of the distracting child. Anger at the heartache and the upset and the pain; all unnecessary. How often had he warned against caring? About allowing hearts opened only to be broken? The danger of engaging with humanity?
And yet. And yet. There was something…..
Had he been wrong? Martha Hudson and William Wiggins had tried to tell him something. But he had not listened. He had preferred to believe his own take on the affair, on cynical trust in experiences of the past, not the future. In his own refusal to believe any other than his pessimism, the fact – the fact – the evidence before his eyes that Sherlock had not changed. Would never change. Was a drug addict through and through.
And yet. Something was now niggling his instinct. The new awareness Sherlock had been determined to leave the flat telling it's story, despite the mess, was unusual; telling his story despite the chaos. Laying down his markers in a way he never did: pink string and sealing wax.
Mycroft Holmes slumped down onto a chair at the scarred old kitchen table, marked with tea cup rings, chemical burns, the glancing gouge of a sword. Sighed, rubbed his hands across his eyes and looked at the roll of black bin bags.
Sighed and started work. Such wild disorder would be quicker and more rewarding to remove than to create. He started at the strings draped across the cooker hob. Working with a grim quiet efficiency. Thinking. Slow sluggish thoughts. Redefining attitudes established across many years.
Damn the boy! He had known Mycroft would see and would finally understand. Bu to make certain, Sherlock had ranted at Wiggins; had made such an impression and appeared so eccentric and unreasonable Wiggins would remember Sherlock's odd demands; would remember them, remember the words, and would be compelled to tell Mycroft.
To make sure, even if he was dead and gone at the end of it all, that Mycroft would get his message loud and clear. And understand it. Not an addict.
That the whole Culverton Smith case really was a case, not a narcotic obsession. Because it was all tied up in pink string and sealing wax. Official, formal, proper, not at all what Mycroft thought. And it had been vital Mycroft had been encouraged to think that from the first. To make reaction to the downward spiral look genuine. Terminal.
To tell his brother without words that the drug taking was not a remission nor an indulgence but was a ploy, a move, a trap, a deflection.
Mrs Hudson had told him. There was a plan. It really was window dressing for a case. The drugtaking was part of it. A deception and deliberate act of self sacrifice because the pink string and sealing wax, so insisted upon, explained the drugs were a deliberate choice, not an indulgent relapse.
A decision professional, not personal. A plan scientific, and brave, a firm contradiction of that convincing pose of incapacity. A plan laid out and committed, even unto death.
Avenging the death of a woman who was both an assassin and a friend, of sorts. Rescuing the soul of John Watson from grief and self inflicted wounds. Responding to a woman who was a killer and yet also keeping the vow to protect he had made at a wedding.
Mycroft did not, and never had, approved. (Mary Watson had been a killer, John Watson a soldier and a doctor too prone to romantic idealism and self inflicted wounds, Mycroft knew. But he also knew his brother – dragon slayer and knight in shining armour - thought of Mary Watson as an equal and one who had sacrificed her own life to save his, thought of John Watson as unique and as family. And nothing he, Mycroft, could say (had frequently said) would shake his brother's foolish but deeply felt belief and obligation.
So now…..he moved slowly around the kitchen; taking down the paperwork and the clippings, pulling down the string; the pink string. Picking off hard sealing wax and tape, putting the detritus into the already overflowing kitchen bin. Thinking about trauma and justice and having a brother who took on the world and always expected to win.
Except this time Mycoft now saw Sherlock had dug very deep to win. Because he would do anything to win. To avenge a life sacrificed to save his own, to save the life of the man who had saved his own.
Death had walked too close. Sherlock had walked deliberately into that danger. Into a hospital that saw deliberate deaths as well as saved lives. Mycroft realised that, in cold blood and obligation, Sherlock had risked both his life and his sanity for this case. And had just let his brother anticipate the worst.
So, driven beyond endurance, he had swept into 221B with his minions to expunge the room, the house, the world, of his brother's weakness. Played into Sherlock's hands; displayed the truth and the fear of the unstoppable drugs binge that would put him into hospital, Culverton Smith's pet project hospital,,,to break the case whether or not the case broke him.
Lestrade had played him the tape of Culverton Smith's attempted murder down the telephone. Mycroft had been grateful for that; for no-one with him to see the horror of his reaction; a reaction he for once was unable to control, even in the privacy of his own sitting room.
Had he got Sherlock wrong all these years? Had there always been a reason behind the dive into drugs? Not weakness of character, as he always allowed it to appear, but strength? An alienation to frighten him away, keep him safe from the dangers by repulsing him?
He had always said his drug taking was "for a case". And Mycroft had never believed him. Oh, dear God.
Had he misunderstood his brother all these years? And had Sherlock let him? To leave him free to undertake The Work without help or interference?
He found himself sitting back at the kitchen table, piles of paper and string before him. Striving for calm, lost in his own Mind Palace, he found himself winding wool and string and yarn into separate skeins, shuffling papers into some semblance of order.
And as he did so he found himself newly able to read his brother's process; of the newspaper and magazine cuttings on Culverton Smith that had littered and dominated the kitchen space.
The article print outs were decorated with moustaches, spectacles, blackened teeth and fingernails, bow ties and earrings the way a child would doodle when bored; signifying window dressing and a distracted mind. Some were so silly they made him smile: a worm in spectacles popping out of an ear, snot falling from a nose.
But he gradually saw the pattern; the newspaper clippings of deaths that seemed incongruous at first sight, unadorned with doodles, seemingly unrelated. But which were clearly the trail of breadcrumbs Sherlock had seen and investigated, timelines and proof of Culverton Smith's obsession with and process of death on an almost industrial scale.
Mycroft put the rubbish into black bags, the relevant clippings into a file for Lestrade.
He looked at his watch and realised two hours had passed. That his back ached and he needed a break and the bathroom. That he had seen and understood too much, was swamped with it.
He looked at his reflection in the bathroom mirror; thought that even to his own eyes he seemed tired, jaded. Looked around that utilitarian space to note it was as neat and spartan as ever; and a brief look into the empty bedroom was the same. The private disciplined man in his bathroom and bedroom, the public facade of chaos beyond.
Pink string and sealing wax. His own private message to be read and understood.. The vital elements to make him see with new eyes. He suddenly felt old, inadequate, wrong footed. Thought about past, present and future, leaning against the wall between rooms. Sherlock had once slammed him into that wall, wrenched his arm painfully up his back as Watson had warned him to just leave before Sherlock broke his arm.
Another Sherlock, and yet the same. Dirty and scruffy and also apparently drug riddled, explaining again it was "just for a case" The same Sherlock, in the same place, hiding in plain sight. The real Sherlock, enigmatic and always something other. Why had he never seen what he was seeing now, what his brother was always telling him?
He pushed away from his thoughts, sighed, moved softly back into the sitting room and crossed to the grey leather armchair.
Looked down at his brother, who had remained asleep and unmoving throughout the bustle of Wiggins packing and leaving, the kitchen tidying. Was still deeply asleep, or he would have been snarling at him by now, sharp and sardonic. But who remained slouched down, just as he had left him two hours ago.
Still wrapped within the Belstaff, just as he had been since John Watson delivered him home from hospital hours earlier, as he had dropped into the chair when Watson left, and had not shifted since. Hands still fisted deep into pockets, shoulders hunched inwards, that long lean body shrunken down into both coat and chair.
Asleep for – what – four hours, now? Unusual. Especially with people around him. Especially with his brother standing over him and peering intently down into his face. But he could have been dead instead. So what was a lengthy sleep, in Sherlocks terms, was as necessary as it was allowed, this time.
Mycroft Holmes stood and observed. Determinedly dispassionate.
Registered lank and overlong hair falling over the closed eyes; blue veined lids with their feminine fan of long lashes above deeply shadowed cheekbones, untidy itchy black stitches over the left eyebrow, facial grazes and bruises. Incongruous auburn stubble, at least two days old. Forehead wrinkled into a frown, long mobile lips moving a little in sleep.
He was being whimsical, he berated himself. But he rarely saw his brother asleep these days, he realised, or even unshaven, and the shock of that reminded him how deceptive his brother's normal façade of sarcasm and arrogance was. In sleep that unique face, wiped clean of expression and control, was still youthful, deeply vulnerable.
Mycroft Holmes refused to analyse further; he had his own defences to protect, after all.
But for now he gave into temptation – 
and gently put the back of one hand to the high forehead: smooth if greasy with dried sweat and lack of hygiene; normal temperature. No fever, no reaction.
Trailed long gentle fingers down the gaunt face to the pulse point at the side of the neck; beating reassuringly strong, slow, steady. No physical after effects, then. And mental after effects were none of his business.
Yet his hand lingered at the pulse point. Wondering how long it had been since he had last touched his brother. He could not even remember.
Dragging him physically out of a hellhole in Serbia did not count. That had been retrieving an agent; not a brother. And anyway, they never talked about it.
Such a distance between them. A distance he thought now, and without bitterness, that needed breaching and mending, before it was too late and they lost each other completely.
He would take the black bags full of Culverton Smith down to Mrs Hudson's bins, courier the file to Lestrade at the Yard. Go to Speedy's to fetch bacon sandwiches and coffee, and the added indulgence of Danish pastries, purely so Sherlock could tease him about weight and diets, and restore something of normality between them.
He would wake his baby brother with food and drink and companionship. They would eat and talk, without the pressure of work or cases or other people, clear away the rest of the paperwork, the pink string and the sealing wax, restore order and load Lestrade's file to help strengthen their case against the serial killer.
They would not talk about life or death or drugs. About narrow escapes or complex cases, or debts of honour. They would reminisce about beach holidays and music lessons, plan a visit to the parents. And perhaps, the way they had once used to, agree to play duets for them after dinner.
His piano playing was rusty, but he was sure they could manage something simple to begin with; Kreisler's arrangement of Clair De Lune, perhaps, or Pachebel's Canon in D? If they came together to practise? Yes. That would be good. Positive. Brotherly. It was, perhaps, time to discover how to be brothers again.
Sentiment, was that?. Huh! He shook his head, indulged in a secret smile. Perhaps it was time.
He left the room as quietly as he had entered it. Went lightly down the stairs. Smiled at the thought of pink string and sealing wax, and found himself humming the Debussy.
Sherlock, unmoving, unaware, slept on.
END
As much as I dislike S4, there are changes in relationships that have to be addressed if being truthful to canon, so there needs to be a bridge taking Mycroft from the superior older brother of the earlier series, to the brother resigned to death at Sherlock's hands because he perceives John Watson is more important. This is one way of travel towards that. And also clears up an actual, practical mess never resolved!
Jeannie of course was the homeless girl he gave money for 'a cuppa tea' when he is after information to locate the Gollum, In actuality actress Jeanne Spark.
The use of pink string and sealing wax to denote the official wrapping of drugs and poisons sold to the public over the counter from a chemist was a Victorian and Edwardian practise that lingered on into the 1920's. Many fatal drugs and poisons were in common and innocent household use at the time, as can be discovered by researching real life murder cases of the period that took advantage of this availability. A famous British film of such a case of poisoning, made in 1945, was called Pink String And Sealing Wax.
.
