She never thought she'd be the one to say goodbye. To say no to having a chance at a romantic relationship with Sherlock Holmes. But she did. On that fateful day after that life-altering phone call, that's exactly what she did. He had turned up, explained, apologised, and done all the gentlemanly grovelling he could do. She had accepted and forgiven. He had confessed it to be true, and she … she had turned him down. Molly Hooper knew she loved Sherlock Holmes, and now she knew Sherlock Holmes loved her. But she could not be with Sherlock Holmes. Her heart was too far gone, too full of hurt. Her brain was too afraid and her body too nervous. She said no.
She often questioned her decision, but when it came down to it she knew she had done the right thing. He was her best friend. He was one of the only people she had in the whole world whom she trusted. And yes, he had his bad moments and those must be accounted for but he was, in reality, a good man. A great man. But he was a man she couldn't trust with her heart. She couldn't lose him as a friend because something went wrong between them romantically. That truly would break her. And so, she had said no.
There was no awkwardness between them, no tension. Just an understanding really. There was something comforting in the knowledge of their love for each other. It spurred them forwards rather than holding them back. At Barts, they functioned together like a well-oiled machine. At his home, they pulled apart theories and searched for clues just as well as he and John did. At her home, they ate fish and chips and watched crap telly. They coexisted quite nicely in their universe of friends in love and she was happy to keep it that way.
Sherlock Holmes was not.
It was driving him insane. Every inch of his body tingled with the need to touch her. Every laugh, every smile, every friendly touch made him fall harder. In her presence, he felt so light and free. But even with her, he was without her, and that felt so heavy. That felt like his lungs were made of lead and his heart a fragile piece of glass that she could break with the tiniest amount of pressure. He needed her so badly it made his skin crawl.
But, he respected her wishes. He understood why she wished they remain only friends, albeit close. He knew he had done enough to hurt her in the past that if she decided to cut him off completely, it would be justified. But she had stayed, she had stayed a friend. And if that's all he could have then that's what he would take.
But, he 
 it wasn't. He 
he could have more. And that was what was so damn hard.
He saw her reactions when they were together. He saw 
just as she saw him. He saw her eyes dilate and her breaths quicken. He felt her pulse speed up. He watched her eyes roam over his figure when she thought he couldn't see. He heard her stutter return when he stood a touch too close. He caught her smiling at her phone when a strategically timed text popped through, usually just as she came into his line of sight. He saw her stroke her finger on the lock screen of said phone whenever it lit up, over his face in the picture of them both with Rosie. He saw all of the evidence that she wanted him too. Every single day. She was unequivocally his, but just not quite.
He watched her as she moved around her kitchen, so comfortable and relaxed in his company. She wiped her hands on her apron as she continued gathering the ingredients for whatever she was going to rustle up next. She had been tasked with baking the sweet treats for Rosie's birthday. Well, not so much as tasked but volunteered. Molly loved baking, it calmed her. And after a stressful week at work, she welcomed it. She enjoyed the chemistry of it, the composition of a good thing. Much like him with his composing on his violin. She hadn't expected Sherlock to come around, but he showed up more often than not these days.
"Sherlock, could you pass me the - Oh!" As she turned, she had almost collided with Sherlock's (solid, fit, 
) body. "The- the flour."
Damn her nervous stutter. She thought she had gotten over it, the urge to admire every inch of him but apparently, her traitorous brain had not.
Instead of passing the flour, Sherlock ducked his hand into the packet and picked up a fistful of the fluffy powder. As he turned back to Molly where she waited expectantly, he blew it from his hand towards her face. She flinched with an adorable giggle before gasping in shock when he pulled his fingers down her cheek in a caress that left two distinctive stripes of white across her face.
"Sherlock Holmes!" She wasn't angry, she was wearing that impish smirk of hers that lit his nerve endings on fire. "Oh ho ho, now you've started something!"
Molly grabbed a handful of flour from the surface of the countertop and raised herself onto her toes so her hand could just about drop it above his head, letting the powder land in his fitful curls and sprinkle across his face. A look passed between them, their stances widened as they prepared for battle and soon flour was flying around Molly's kitchen. Laughter erupted from them like an explosion of gleeful fireworks as they tossed the ingredient at each other, hitting and missing their target. Soon enough, they were both positively covered.
As usual, their gravity for each other had pulled them closer together than the average 'friendly' distance society accepted. Molly could feel his breath on her face as she reached up to wipe some flour that lay directly to the side of his mouth with the pad of her thumb.
He stepped closer still, slipping a hand into hers and stroking her blushed, floury cheek with the other. He didn't miss the way she leant into it slightly. A completely unconscious action on her part.
"Sherlock." She tried to be light-hearted, tried to sound jovial but he was just 
 close to her.
"Molly."
Then there was that voice. That extra low baritone voice that simply made her weak at the knees. He only ever used it with her. As far as she knew anyway. Its effect on her would surely not be missed by the world's only consulting detective.
"Don't."
Closer again, his body now pressed almost entirely against hers save from some room between their chests as their eyes remained locked. Her voice was breathy, barely there, and even she didn't really believe it. He lowered his face to hers, dancing his lips ever so slightly over her own. She prayed to whatever higher power to help her in that moment because the battle between morality and love was not one she was familiar with.
"Tell me you don't want this."
"Sherlock."
Another brush of his lips across her skin, his breath warm on her cheek as his head remained bent down to hers.
"Tell me you don't want this."
He said it again, taking this chance. He knew she wanted it, he knew they could have this. His somewhat shaky hands snaked around her waist, holding her to him. Molly felt herself melt into him completely, she didn't miss the glimpse of a satisfied smirk gracing Sherlock's handsome features.
"Sherlock, we can't."
"Why not?"
Everything they said was a whisper. She took a deep breath and squeezed her eyes shut before taking a step away from him. Although obviously reluctant to let her go, he allowed her to extract herself from his embrace.
"Because you're all I've got. And if this went wrong, I couldn't live with myself."
Sherlock opened his mouth but nothing was expelled except a sigh. He nodded and moved to the oven, checking the contents. There was no need to, there was still forty-five minutes left on the timer. He was just desperate for a distraction. Molly watched him, wiping some stray tears from her powdery cheeks, streaking the flour he'd left there minutes before. Sherlock turned back to her and when his gaze flicked across her cheek and then to her eyes, she knew he knew that she was crying. His expression softened and his forehead crinkled and his face just looked so invitingly 
 that she almost broke. She wanted him, she wanted him so much it hurt, and that feeling was becoming harder and harder to ignore. More tears fell. Sherlock stepped towards her, the smile he only ever gave her graced his lips, shining down and consequently raising her heart rate. Sherlock took her hand, rubbing his thumb over the back of it.
"Why does it have to go wrong?"
"Sherlock-"
"I love you, Molly Hooper. I love you more than I thought I was ever capable of, more than anything. And I will love you every single day, no matter the status of our relationship." He edged slightly closer, inhaling the scent of her hair and the flour lingering in the air. "But ... I'm in love with you and if you'll agree to take that step with me, I will do everything in my power to ensure nothing goes wrong. You will always have me, Molly. Always."
More tears had escaped and she wouldn't look into his eyes but Sherlock noticed the grip on his hand became tighter, and the rising and falling of her chest had quickened as he spoke. He squeezed her hand, trying to convey just how sincere he was being.
He ached for her and he knew he would do anything to have her, to keep her, to love her unconditionally.
She finally met his eyes, a look of shock in those chocolate brown orbs that made him realise he had aired his last thought aloud. Molly saw this moment of realisation in his eyes and smiled a little. He was unequivocally Sherlock after all. When he focused again his eyes pinned her in place. She could see a thousand emotions swimming in those iridescent irises, but mostly she just saw love. Love for her. She realised that maybe, just maybe, it was time to let go.
She took a step and closed the gap between them, pushing herself up onto her toes and crashing her lips into his with an urgency and speed that he didn't expect. He didn't hesitate in his response though, and soon their lips were moving together in a harmonious symphony that could rival those of Bach and Mozart. His plush lips felt like a dream beneath hers and when he begged her for access with his tongue, she granted it without a second thought. Their bodies moved and melted together like two halves of a perfect whole and Molly couldn't help but wonder why she had put this off for so long. Sherlock's hands splayed across her back, touching her wherever he could, it felt like a fantasy. It felt too good to be true and yet, it was. She gasped at the groan which emanated from the back of his throat when she gave the hair on his head a soft tug. He smiled against her lips before she pulled back, gasping for breath. He was seeking oxygen just as desperately. If she tried to, he was sure she would be able to see his pulse racing in his neck.
"I love you too, Sherlock Holmes."
He almost didn't hear her over the pounding of his heart in his ears, but he had never felt as much relief as he did in that moment.
He cupped her face and brought her lips to his once more. This kiss was soft, slow, sensual. Loving. This kiss was love and nothing less but everything more. It was heaven and it was finally theirs. She pulled away and ruffled his curls with a giggle, flour flying everywhere.
She turned, walking from the kitchen and away from him. His confusion was palpable and his twinge of panic was heard in his voice as he desperately asked where she was going.
"I'm covered in flour, Sherlock. I'm going for a shower."
He nodded, accepting her response but the puppy dog eyed look he was sporting was not lost on him. God, he needed this woman so damn much. He watched her hips sway as she took another couple of steps towards the bathroom, distracted by the overwhelming thankfulness he felt now that she was finally his. She stopped again, looking at him over her shoulder and letting out a laugh at his tilted head and raised brow.
"Are you coming?"
He didn't need to be asked twice.
