When bad men combine, the good must associate; else they will fall one by one, an unpitied sacrifice in a contemptible struggle.
(Edmund Burke)
He awoke suddenly with a jolt – prodded in the shoulder by a long bony hand. But he came to more slowly, coming to the surface with the aid, or it might have been the hindrance, of a less than inspiring monologue in his ear.
"There's hot strong coffee here; you need the stimulus. Take away tea is always stewed and never anything other than lukewarm tannin. And a bacon sandwich. Frightfully plebian but instant energy and psychologically reassuring. I took the liberty of applying tomato ketchup. Something of a digestif, although too much like congealing blood in appearance. But then, you do like blood."
Sherlock Holmes could hear paper bags rustling and the squeak of tightly held polystyrene cups. The cynical twist of his brother's lips he could well imagine; he did not need to look up and see.
"A pity there is no such alternative as cab shelter sauce these days, it's no longer made commercially, more's the pity. So don't bother asking for it simply to be perverse. And as a special treat there are also Danish pastries. Definitely the sugar rush you require."
He paused for a response that did not happen.
"So do sit up and eat while the comestibles that are supposed to be hot are still…ah…hot," he
prompted. Delivered another prod in the shoulder.
"Come on, brother mine. Get with it, as they say. Refreshments courtesy of Mr Chatterjee. Time for malingering is over."
He opened his eyes with heavy reluctance.
The room was still flooded with the same turmoil of paper and string that had been there when he left, bundled into Mrs Hudson's car boot at gunpoint. When he returned to collapse into his chair, alone. He wanted to groan at the sight, but thought better of it.
Grey morning light drifted through the tall windows unfettered by curtains never drawn the evening before. Dust motes danced. And two aromatic paper bags were slammed down onto his chest.
He struggled to sit more upright in the familiar leather chair, clutched the warm bags dumped on his chest to stop them from slipping to the floor, and hissed with the effort and the protesting muscles in his back and neck.
"Ah, you are in there."
Mycroft Holmes was leaning awkwardly over his younger brother, stooping from the waist like a stork, hands hovering. The surveillance was disconcertingly detached but brief. Two lengthy blinks that took in everything there was to be seen. And probably more besides.
"A bit bashed about," he observed, turning away and sitting at the dusty G Plan dining table to the side of the armchair, still observing from above, looking down physically as well as intellectually. "Unlike you. And stitches, no less."
"And good morning to you, too." He reached for the usual sardonic bite, but his voice was too tired to achieve full effect.
"Stitches?"
The repetition was interrogation.
"Walked into a door," he replied, still on autopilot.
"Yes, yes," a dismissive wave of a hand. "But how did you really get into this condition?"
There was nothing of patience or sympathy in the interrogation, and the younger brother realised the older must have spoken to John Watson at the very least, but would have only heard half the story. Secretive and yet being economical with the truth to try and prise out more truth, then? Interesting. Conferred with Lestrade, then? More likely; or even words with both.
"How did you know I was here? And apparently needing breakfast?"
"I spoke to Doctor Watson last night. He told me he had brought you back here from the hospital."
Mycroft Holmes looked away at last, changing the subject for the moment, unfurled the top of one of his own takeway bags, peered inside as if expecting foreign bodies that might bite to leap out.
"Good of him." He fought to keep the words sounding noncommittal.
"Yes? When he protests you are no longer his responsibility?" The British Government fished out a large bacon bap, wrapped a paper napkin fastidiously around the base, and considered the potential horrors of taking a bite. "Even though, if merely serving as your doctor, he should have stayed with you." The tone sounded reflective rather than critical, but the younger brother was not fooled.
"I do not require nannying. By him or anyone." He drew a breath as levelly as he could manage. "And yet here you are."
"Quite so. But surely you would expect me here? Today of all days?"
Not unexpectedly, the remark was ignored.
"I need a shower. Change of clothes." More pointedly: "A bit of peace."
"Eat something first and drink the coffee while it is hot. A matter of priorities. Fuel for the transport. Stop yourself falling over."
"Hmn." Almost agreement. He opened the paper bag without lifting it off his chest. "The state of me must disgust you," he remarked, almost inconsequentially.
Thee pause before answering was half a beat too long and was it's own answer
"Yes, of course."
"So why are you really here?"
"Because you are my brother."
"Not good enough. Try again."
"Because you almost died yesterday. If not by Culverton Smith's hand, by your own. Sloppy procedurally, and also totally unnecessary."
He found he could not be bothered to refute or comment. Too weary and wearied, he thought. Struggled to sit fully upright, annoyed at himself and the situation, and watched his brother watch the pain flood across his face without attempting to hide it, for once. It seemed to prove something, but for the life of him he could not remember what.
"How in Hell did you get like this?" For once Mycroft Holmes could barely contain his genuine disgust. "And why did your doctor not stay to take care of you?"
"Get like this?" he echoed. "This is just the necessary side effect from successfully concluding a case The sort of legwork you abhor." He buried his face in the convenient paper bag to hide any expression, and drew out a warm and fragrant bread bun identical to his brother's. "And he is not 'my' doctor. Not any more."
"And yet he rescued you. Or was Gregory Lestrade telling me little white lies to protect one or other of you?"
"Sod Lestrade." Surveyed the whiteness of the bread bun in his grimy and slightly bloodied hand. "No, he told you the truth. John Watson was merely acting under instruction."
"Yours?"
"I don't think so. Do you?" He shrugged, a bitter little laugh swallowed as he bit into soft new bread, chewed middle back bacon, cooked to perfection. "Not mine. His wife's."
"A voice from the void?" He asked the question, refrained from mentioning his knowledge of the video, how Mrs Hudson – of all people – had berated him for seeing it, for even knowing it existed.
"You could say that," his brother spoke around his food. Mycroft watched him carefully. "But in more modern terms. Instruction from a video message Mrs Watson recorded before she died. Had sent to me, afterwards. Her insurance policy. You might say."
"How prescient of her."
"Yes. She foresaw her own death. Knew an assassin with her history would never die of old age in a feather bed. Professional to the end, she had planned for the logical eventuality."
"Which was you."
"Me."
Mycroft Holmes made a frustrated noise in the back of his throat.
"That was beyond presumptuous. She was never worth any sacrifice by you on her behalf."
"As I was never worth her sacrifice on behalf of me, you mean." He had intended to bite out the words with anger. But they came out softer, almost caring. But not for the woman who had taken his bullet. Not this time.
"Sherlock…."
"No. I don't want to hear it."
For a time they sat and ate, keeping their own counsel. Sherlock Holmes looked in any direction other than towards his brother, whereas Mycroft Holmes looked at nothing other than his brother.
He did not like the fact Sherlock Holmes had slept in his coat, sitting in his chair, just as he had collapsed into it; that he looked so ill and sweaty; that there were grazes on his face and hands and stitches in his eyebrow. That he had almost died less than twenty four hours ago (or was it twice less than twenty four hours ago? There was a very strong suspicion) That a fastidious man such as his brother had neither washed nor shaved; that the sight and the smell of drug taking still hung upon him. And that the ennui and self loathing were even more marked than usual, released by stress and exhaustion.
He restrained an impulse to step forward, drag his brother to his feet, slap the strangeness out of him and shove him, even fully dressed as he was, under a hot shower…
"How are you? Really?" he ventured.
The question he could not contain any longer forced it's way past his lips, sounding quieter and more caring than his normal clipped and peremptory tone. Unusual enough for his brother to turn towards him, frown and examine him carefully.
Mycroft Holmes allowed the examination, and for it to reveal what it might.
"You're wearing mufti. You never wear mufti. What's going on?"
"Oh, these old togs?" He dismissed the immaculate and expensive casual clothing with a shrug. "More appropriate for removing from the premises – safely out of your way - a crack den. Or a meths lab, whatever you streetwise people may call it." He bit back what could have become a stream of invective. Simply asked: "How could you? Bring that disgusting, illegal decadent mess here? Into your home?"
"My God. And there was me, thinking you were the clever one…." Sherlock Holmes' face twisted in something like disgust, and he dropped the half eaten bun back into it's bag, fingers clenching around the wrapper. When he spoke again his voice was low, slow, disillusioned.
"The 'mess,' as you call it, had to be here. Don't you see? I had to do this; had to dive back down into drugs – the only way I could get into Culverton Smith's hospital to find the facts about his killings, see what he was up to first hand. Become a patient, an insider. I couldn't fake it. But I could control it.
"Only by walking a fine line, not sure it would work, because I had to depend on being able to handle the drugs, what I took and how much, trust their source."
He sighed and shook his head slowly, withdrawal and exhaustion fighting for dominance now the action was over.
"You may not believe this, but I knew I could trust Wiggins – I had trusted him to drug you, and the parents and Mary after all – that God awful Christmas. I knew I could trust him to drug me and make sure I was OK. So he came here to make and cut my drug consumption…even administer it for me, if needed.
"Safer than going to another dealer; safer than being seen by police on a raid, or overdosed by any smackhead who might recognise me while I was out of it and would think it funny or clever. And I didn't know – doing that, going to Hell just as Mary bid me – how deep I might need to go with the drugs. So safest here doing it. Don't you see?"
Mycroft Holmes shook his head, speechless.
"But I couldn't tell you, I knew how much you would disapprove. So I froze you out. But you're used to that, so I hoped you would leave me a breathing space to do what was needed. Couldn't tell anyone because no-one would approve, or allow. What was the only way to save John Watson."
"He is not worth it. Worth you; not worth your sacrifice," Mycroft Holmes heard his own voice, almost unrecognisable, unusually thick with emotion. But for once the Ice Man did not care. Some things, he felt in that moment, were beyond habitual self control and detachment.
"You know nothing."
"Clearly. What I don't know is why you think him worth your efforts; bend over backwards for him. If not for…that. Hmn. I apologise. Poor choice of words."
Mycroft felt his cheeks redden with embarrassment, but did not take the words back, or apologise for them.
"You should know me well enough to know….not for that. Not ever for that. And you know why." This time Sherlock Holmes' voice was strong, painfully firm.
"Yes, I do. I'm sorry, Sherlock. I have often wondered…but sometimes things need to be said. Questions asked. Because I do not understand – have never understood – how you think him worth the sacrifices you make for him. The danger you put yourself into on his behalf."
He watched his younger brother blink slowly, apparently unmoved.
"I need an assistant. Even you should understand that. With all your minions."
"Anyone….."
"Anyone? Anyone else, were you about to say? Where else do I find another 'anyone' like John Watson? Anyone who is both doctor and soldier? Who cares and heals by default, but will also shoot and kill for me if necessary? Who can put up with a freak like me for more than a day? As my assistant and sometimes even as my friend? Who, Mycroft? And from where?"
An unusual impassioned speech, yet spoken without passion. AS if the words had been inside his head for far too long.
"You are not a freak." The older brother forced vehement words past his teeth as objectively as he knew how.
"How would you know?"
"Because you are my brother. So I know all of your many qualities, good as well as bad."
"Drink your coffee. You risk becoming maudlin."
"Sometimes…things need to be said, brother mine," he said, too quietly. "This seems one of those rare times."
The dark head turned to survey him.
"Caring is not an advantage. How many times have you told me that?"
"I will admit; too many times. My fault. Not yours."
"You really are not yourself today, are you? Perhaps you should eat both these Danish pastries you bought us; benefit from the sugar rush."
He levered himself up from the grey leather. Wobbled a little and closed his eyes for a moment. Put a steadying hand onto the mantle.
"This conversation is far too embarrassing. I'm going for a shower. The smell of me is proving offensive."
"One must be immaculate for visitors," his elder brother said primly.
"I'm not expecting visitors."
"One never knows."
Sherlock Holmes shook his head and walked unsteadily towards the bathroom, shedding the Belstaff onto the coat hooks in the hall on his way.
Mycroft Holmes did not correct or disillusion, or even offer to help. Let him go.
o0o0o
Half an hour later he emerged from his bedroom. Clean, hair washed, grey silk shirt, dark trousers, lawn striped blue silk dressing gown.
"That's better. But you haven't shaved….."
"Does it matter?" he sounded exasperated. But then: "Hands shaking too hard."
"You could have asked…."
His brother shot him a withering look.
"Don't push your luck."
With a small brittle half smile to soften the harshness of rejection. A change of subject.
"What are you doing?"
"I may not be the consulting detective here , but even to me it looks like tidying a tip. Don't you think?"
Left alone, feeling awkward yet with purpose, he had begun to repeat the task he had completed in the kitchen; taking down the photographs and the newspaper clippings, the scrawled sheets of paper and post-it notes, taking down the swathes of pink string.
"Is that what you came here for? Why are you doing this?"
Sherlock Holmes looked genuinely puzzled
"Hard to believe, is it? Shame on you, little brother." He paused. Truth, in many forms, were at a tipping point. "You may have slept throughout our task, but between us Wiggins and I have cleared up the kitchen. It looks positively mundane now. Clean enough to pass even Mrs Hudson's inspection."
Sherlock Holmes huffed a low laugh. "You and Wiggins working in concert is something I am sad to have missed. Or the sight of you in one of Hudders' floral pinnys, cleaning….."
At last he smiled, and for once his brother smiled back. It should have been reassuring, but simply increased the older brothers' anxiety level.
"Oh, I can be very useful, if pushed. And because you were sleeping, we had no interference. I got Wiggin's message, by the way; the one you so artfully meant him to give me. If you didn't come back from this latest….ah….case."
"No idea what you are talking about."
"The pink string, child. And the sealing wax. So I would know your dive back into drugs was not sheer natural perversity on your part. But a deliberate plan." He hesitated then added, "And, I like to think, some sort of apology."
There was no reply, and instead Sherlock Holmes reached over for the tall polystyrene cup of cappuccino, certainly cold by now, and flinched with pain at the movement.
"That was unusually thoughtful of you, " his brother continued, regardless. "So thank you. I appreciate it. Even if it was meant as some kind of epitaph. In case you did not come back. Which, I should not need to add, I would not have appreciated."
"Shut up."
"No. Not this time. I shall speak plain. I cannot lose you, Sherlock. You have too much utility."
"Oh, that old thing."
"That old thing. Which of course also means you are unique and irreplaceable. As dragon slayer. Detective" He hesitated, but, compelled, added: "Friend. Son. Brother."
"Be careful, Mycroft. You are bordering on the sentimental."
"Perhaps so. But the word is defined as tenderness, sadness or nostalgia. Holmes's do not admit to any existence of tenderness. But I would be saddened by your death, and be nostalgic for the presence of my brother. So yes: sentimental it is, then."
"Hmn. I prefer utility."
"Perhaps. But you have no utility at the moment. Just look at you."
"Why bother?" The brusque retort seemed to sap him of the last of his energy. "Oh, leave me be, Mycroft. I'm exhausted. And the effort of taking a shower…." He paused, wobbled again. Put out a hand to the back of a chair. "I feel ill. Shaking, depressed, anxious, I'm coming down from a drug binge, you see. No more than classic text book responses, but even so…."
"Precisely. Which leads me to ask – again. Why did Watson rescue you from Culverton Smith to just abandon you here last night?"
He hadn't expected a reply. He had asked the question at least twice before – feeling angry and betrayed on behalf of his little brother, and been ignored by him. But not this time. This time Sherlock Holmes was answering, and answering beyond mere honesty.
"Because he hates me. Is that not obvious? Even to you? He blames me for his wife's death. Has refused to speak to me ever since. Only got involved the other day – finally – because Mrs Hudson, of all people, shamed him into it. And the experience….." he swallowed down a lump of despair in his throat, hoping his brother had not noticed. Had not noticed the bruises, the stitched eyebrow, the cracked ribs, either. Did not know of the kicking and the pummelling and the dark and disillusioned exchange in a hospital bathroom. "…was not good."
Avoiding the disillusioned look on Mycroft's face, the look of sudden concentration on that stitched eyebrow, he hurried on, more to distract than inform.
"He only rescued me because his wife told him to. Not because he wanted to rescue me, or even thought I was worth rescuing. Just because Mary told him to." He lifted his head and looked bleakly into a scenario in his mind's eye only he would ever see. "Sad but true."
Mycroft Holmes bit back the reply on the tip of his tongue. Stopped himself from confiding in his brother; the conversation he had forced onto John Watson a few hours before.
o0o0o
It had been Lestrade who had rung on his private line to tell him what had happened in St Caedwalla's Hospital; about Sherlock's apparent drug fuelled paranoia, his attack on Culverton Smith, his immediate hospitalisation and sedation. And then about the attempted murder in what should have been the safety of a hospital bed, the last minute rescue by John Watson.
It had been Lestrade who had played him the recording from John Watson's walking stick. A recording Sherlock Holmes had anticipated and contrived, purposely to record his own death. Played the recording down the telephone without warning or apology. All he had said in introduction, in justification, had been: "You need to hear this."
And Mycroft had heard. Silently, without comment, but with rising anger and fear. And the deafening echo of those six words:
The six words on the tape that continued to burn in his brain and make his blood boil….
But he remembered thanking Lestrade politely, reassuring. Yes, he would go to Sherlock. Make sure he was well; or as well as could be expected in the circumstances. Would update him. Platitudes he spoke almost without thought.
Yet immediately afterwards he clicked his mobile onto a speed dial number he had not used for a very long time. Which was answered on the second ring.
"Mycroft. Wish I was surprised to hear from you."
John Watson's voice was dull and resigned. As if he had been expecting him to call.
"Thank you so much for rescuing my brother from certain death," Mycroft offered smoothly. "But do tell me why you did not do a proper job? Stayed and looked after him as he needs?"
"Well. Apart from the fact I have a small child to look after…."
"Who is being cared for 
than adequately by a
 than competent baby sitter…."
"He doesn't need looking after," John Watson drove on, ignoring the interruption. "He's spent years coming down from drugs time after time. He knows what he's doing. Doesn't need me, or anyone."
"I doubt if he was an ordinary patient you would have abandoned him. Any other patient beaten to a pulp, probably suffering from concussion. And with the additional trauma of narrowly escaping assassination."
"Nothing to do with me. Back off." The voice as harsh. Mycroft Holmes took no notice.
"Doctor Watson, if you deny your responsibility to my brother once more, I shall not be responsible for my actions. I have held back since your wife died out of consideration for your grief. Which appears unnecessary from your behaviour. But that stops now. There are more important people than you involved here. So do stop wallowing."
"Piss off, Mycroft."
"I will not. And if you put your phone down on me now, I shall be through your door with reinforcements within moments, and you will really regret my interference. For at this point, interference is clearly needed.
There was a brief pause as each listened to the other breathing, shallow rapid breaths of anger silently suppressed.
A computer like trill broke the silence at John Watson's end of the line.
"Do you hear that sound, Dr Watson? That is the sound of a short CCTV video I have just sent downloading onto your phone. I recommend you watch it immediately. It will show you exactly what happened in the London Aquarium. Because you weren't there to see what happened, now were you, John?"
The smooth words rolled inexorably on. Mycroft Holmes had been wanting to say them for a long time.
"You were only there for the aftermath. Which of course made you far too eager to blame Sherlock for something that was, in fact, your fault."
"Mine? You sanctimonious bastard, Mycroft! So it all comes down to me marrying Mary in the first place? How bloody convenient for Sherlock. Or was it just convenient for you? Offloading responsibility for him onto me from the first?"
Mycroft Holmes ignored the jibe, continued.
"Oh yes, indeed. Your fault, Doctor. When Sherlock was dashing to the Aquarium to apprehend Mrs Norbury, it was not Mary he summoned to his side – it was you. But you were so eager for action you read each other's texts. No attention to detail.
"So it was Mary who dashed to his aid. Mary who should have stayed away. Because whether you like the idea or not, dear Vivien was always planning to kill Mary; because Mary was the only person still alive who knew what happened in Tblisi, in that aborted embassy rescue. It was always only ever going to be a matter of time.
"But…."
"Shut up and listen to me. If you know what's good for you."
He dragged in a deep, steadying breath; he was, he observed, angrier than he had thought, had expected, even all these weeks on. Injustice and fear for Sherlock still burning behind his civilised and measured façade.
"Listen to me. Because no-one else will tell you the truth you are so wilfully ignoring. Lestrade can't, because he is in the middle of two murders involving you and Sherlock and his investigations would be compromised. And Sherlock won't, out of some misguided loyalty to you and your late wife. I, however, have no such scruples."
The silence on the other end of the telephone was as good as being told to 'go on, then.'
"You will watch the CCTV of your wife's death and you will see several things. That Sherlock was there first. That Mrs Norbury drew her gun and was determined to shoot him, regardless. That when Mary arrived Sherlock was dismayed, yet did not draw attention to that so Mrs Norbury would not panic and shoot in blind reaction.
"Do remember that your wife was herself a professional killer. Yet you will see that Mary crosses in front of Sherlock, as if to distract Mrs Norbury and draw her fire. That Sherlock starts talking and does his best to not only distract her from Mary, but also to goad her into shooting him instead; and that your wife realises what he is doing and tried to stop him, physically and verbally.
"He ignores her and keeps talking to protect her in the only way he can, unarmed as he is. So when Mrs Norbury shifts from pointing her gun at Mary and shoots at him instead – as he intended - Mary is already moving before the trigger is pulled. Mary Morstan's intervention is deliberate, an action decided in cold blood."
The silence on the other end of the telephone remained, heavy with something unspeakable.
"Of course, you may feel I am making bricks out of straw with this conjecture. Except that it is not conjecture, merely observation of action taken; simple facts. And to support them, your wife had taken out insurance. Knowing she was soon to die, she left a video for Sherlock as a last will and testament, urging him to save you from your grief over her death, and telling him how to do it.
"She knew you better than you know yourself, John. Because she knew that whatever happened, however she died, Sherlock would bear the brunt of your grief, whether her death was anything to do with him or not. And that only he could drag you back from the pit of unfocussed rage and self pity you would allow yourself to wallow in, just as he had rescued you from yourself when you first met."
He paused, as if for dramatic effect.
"So here I am, acting as his messenger. His jobsworth. His plenipotentiary. And not just because he is out of his head with drugs and fear and some sort of punishment he feels because he thinks he let you both down, but because….for some reason ….he is still trying to save and protect you. Bloody fool that he is."
"Mycroft. " John Watson's voice finally came to his as if a long way off. "I…"
"Shut up. I don't want to know. Don't want to hear your apologies or your pathetic excuses."
Then was a silence, long and hollow. And Mycroft realised he was beyond caring how John Watson was reacting to the unvarnished truth.
"What do you want me to do?"
The voice was quiet, almost distant. Already convinced, perhaps.
"For myself, I don't want you to do anything. For myself, I would like you to disappear in a puff of smoke and never be seen again. But for some reason my little brother still seems to consider you worth the effort and the saving. So what do I know."
"But…."
"Of course you may wish to go to Baker Street and make sure he is still alive, has not succumbed to concussion or the appeal of keeping a seven per cent solution in his veins; I understand Wiggins has transformed the flat into some sort of drug manufacturing base."
"I….have to work this morning. Rosie is with the sitter all day."
"Don't tell me. I am really not interested."
"I'll….get back to you? If you will tell me what's happening?"
"Good day, Doctor Watson."
He put the telephone down and for a moment wondered if he had been too harsh. Or not harsh enough? Certainly not as hard nor as angry as he felt. For a moment he sat in thought. Then gave into his instinct. Went to change his clothes and go to Baker Street.
o0o0o
"You are worth so much more than the regard of John Watson," Mycroft Holmes said firmly.
His brother turned a jaundiced eye his way, but summoned a crooked smile.
"If you really think that, then I must be in a bad way."
"Stop it." He waved the pile of newspaper clippings in front of his brother's face.
"Come on, enough slacking. There's work to do to get this place shipshape again. If you sit here and sort out all these cuttings we can put the relevant ones into a file for Lestrade, to help him build his case against Culverton Smith. Find all the victims…."
His brother put out trembling hands, moving slowly and shakily, like an old man.
"Sit down before you fall down," Mycroft Holmes urged, putting the jumble of papers into Sherlock's hands, taking his arms and easing him gently back down into the grey leather chair.
It was all he could do to stop himself stroking his little brother's hair, his arm, in a gesture of support and sympathy. But that would never do.
Instead it was Sherlock himself who made the gesture. Caught Mycroft's hand with his free hand, squeezed it quickly and briefly, and let it go.
"I'm sorry, Mycroft. Thank you."
"Nothing to be sorry about, nor to thank me for, brother mine."
Their eyes met for a moment; but neither was used to confiding in each other, being demonstrative. So they both ducked their heads in some sort of mutual acknowledgement, and set to their tasks.
And yet the silence between them was not awkward. On the contrary, there was a quiet and new ease there that might even have been the beginning of accord.
So there were also snippets of conversation as they worked.
"Are you going to be OK? Do you need anything?"
"Of course. And no, thank you."
Later, when gathering together unopened mail:
"Do you want me to stay?"
"Mrs Hudson will be up here and ask the very same question. As soon as you leave."
"Does she know what has happened to you?"
"My plan could not have worked without her."
As he offered his brother the manila file for Lestrade he had already started while clearing up in the kitchen, he risked it all.
"Sherlock…..why not come over to the town house tomorrow? Be out of the way from any…distractions. Have a meal with me, relax. How long is it since we did that?"
His brother froze, and Mycroft Holmes could not read the reaction. Hurried on before he lost confidence to do so.
"Pa has been doing some sorting at home; all the cans of cine film from when we were children. I'm going through them, told him I'll have the best ones edited and transferred to disc for him. Come and view some of the best ones with me."
"No."
"No?"
"There is nothing of my childhood I want to remember. I delete anything and everything. You know that."
"Yes. But I had thought perhaps your memories would have…receded?"
"Not at all. I don't think of them. I do not dwell in the past. I only look forwards. You know that."
The words were stern, not unexpected. But there was no heat nor anger behind them now, just statement of fact, Mycroft saw with something like relief. Thought for a moment, then tried again.
"Then perhaps….looking forward….you might like to humour me, please the parents in something else…"
"What?"
"Well, we haven't been home for Christmas in a couple of years; and the last time, with the drugging and everything, was not exactly a success. I wondered if we might…. because Mummy and Pa aren't getting any younger…go home for Easter this year with a little surprise for them."
"Easter bunnies? Really?"
"No, you idiot!" And now they did genuinely, and without guile, smile at each other. "I thought it might be nice if we played a duet for them in the library; you on the Guarneri, me on the Bechstein. We could practise….."
"
 for me? 
 for you?"
"Hardly. I thought, perhaps…
?"
"We could do that. Yes. Not tomorrow, though. I'll need a couple of days. To be able to hold the violin at all, the bow. But yes. Why not? We can practise at your home. On one condition. Nothing clever to eat. Something simple."
"Oh, God. Do you mean – chips?"
They were still laughing at the absurdity of that when the door to the flat opened and John Watson stood on the threshold, looking puzzled.
"I think I must have come to the wrong house by mistake. Laughter? From Mycroft Holmes? Wonders will never cease."
He was tentative, unsure of his welcome, but smiling too, now. Nervous, but hiding it well. And yet he was here. He had come.
Smart and very formal in a black jacket, prim indigo blue shirt, buttoned up to the throat, and smart jeans. Silver hair in that silly modern style that aged him, full of product.
Sherlock Holmes had frozen in his chair, and said nothing. So it was left to Mycroft Holmes to offer a greeting both polite and appearing friendly. Part of him had never expected….most of him was relieved.
"John! How pleasant to see you, and how nice of you to come."
"But well timed, Doctor. Far too late to help tidy the place. But very well timed to hang out with Sherlock for a while."
The trendy slang rolled oddly off his tongue, and he watched the other two men bite back smiles, both amused.
"My goodness, whatever is the time! How it flies when one is having fun."
He bent over his brother, who grimaced up at him, not knowing whether to laugh or complain at such a cliché.
"Not staying, Mycroft?" John Watson's query was genuine; his speedwell blue eyes were clear as he met those of the British Government as they turned towards each other.
Mycroft Holmes could see that the storm had passed, or was now in the process of passing, but at least was no longer fixed so doggedly in place.
"Work calls, I am afraid." He said cheerfully, then, softly, turning fully to John Watson so his brother could not hear.
"So glad you came. Over to you." And John Watson gave a brief, soldierly nod. And he smiled. A proper smile. Sheepish, uneasy. But a smile.
"Well then. First things first," he said, brisk and cheerful sounding. Being a soldier, facing his fears, shrugging off his jacket and tossing it over a chair.
"Tea, Sherlock?"
"Thought you'd never ask," was the reply.
And Mycroft Holmes watched the tentative, almost shy, smile that passed between Sherlock Holmes and John Watson. And muttered, as if despite himself:
"The first day of the rest of our lives."
"What?"
"Sorry? Didn't quite catch that…."
Both spoke at once, turned to him. But he was smiling at them both.
"No matter," he replied, as if it didn't. Became brisk and business like again.
"I've bagged the rubbish, stored away all the pink string in the utility cupboard, should you ever need it again. Your unopened post is by the fireplace."
"Thank you, Mycroft."
He could swear there were tears in his brother's eyes. Lent over him briefly to grasp his shoulder, say two words into his ear. So only Sherlock Holmes heard the words: "Happy Birthday."
"Oh, shut up!" was the reply. "Anyone would think I was a weak and feeble thing that needed coddling."
Mycroft grinned, in as supercilious a way as he could. Turned and winked - actually winked – at John Watson. Who was suddenly reminded of someone else who had done that, winked broadly at him in a quiet afternoon in a Bart's laboratory that had changed his life.
"I'll talk to you tomorrow. Both of you, if you are most terribly lucky."
"Or unlucky," murmured his brother.
He turned and walked away, and suppressed a smile.
The last thing he heard was:
"Tea, then? I don't suppose you have biscuits?"
"I don't know. But Mycroft has left fresh Danish pastries….."
He paused on the landing, shut the door quietly behind himself. It might actually be all right. It looked as if it might be all right.
And there was that pledge, dear God.
Finally he permitted himself a small secret smile all of his own. Picked up the black bin bags full of discarded photos and newspaper clippings to take downstairs. And braced himself to beg Mrs Hudson for the use of her bins.
They were few prospects as terrifying.
And how wonderful was that?
END
Mufti is UK slang for casual dress, especially for those most often seen in uniform for formal dress.
