Tease
People think that John is the normal one. That's why they've been warning him off Sherlock since the start. Or at the very least offering him the chance to commiserate. Then again, like his boyfriend would say, people are idiots. Because the truth? Normal was killing John. Almost literally. Then Sherlock happened. He actually did, like a volcanic eruption or tsunami or something else that you very much don't expect to come across in London. John's days have been made since then.
Sherlock has seen through him the first time he laid eyes on him. That's why he actually offered to share a flat, before anyone even managed to breach that subject. (Ok, yes, maybe Sherlock's military kink had something to do with it, too.) But if Mike had brought along someone boring, Sherlock would have been off like a shot before anyone could propose anything. When they became a couple, Sherlock admitted to being intrigued by John from the first instant. Frankly, it's one of the things John will be proud of to his last day.
Most people don't even know about John's gun. He isn't supposed to still have it. Or about the way he needs something, anything to keep him on his toes, if he wants to feel alive. Sure, Sherlock will have a strop if a case doesn't arrive, while John can always count on his boyfriend to sprinkle his day with just the right amount of adrenaline. John's problem wasn't the head in the fridge, per se. It was that it wasn't in any kind of container. Who does that?
Sherlock isn't the only one who saw a perfect match at first glance, though. Did John think Sherlock was as as mad as a whole neighbourhood of hatters? Sure. Did he know both the world and him needed said madman? God yes. Now, sure, it took them both a little while longer to recognise that the way they fit together wasn't a sign of a platonic life partnership. But they got there. That's what matters.
"Why so thoughtful?" Sherlock interrupts his musings with a smile.
"Just thinking. If people were just a tad smarter, they would have warned you off me."
"Oh, would they?" His boyfriend crowds against him.
"The polite-ish, maladjusted former soldier? Or the rude genius? Who would you say is more in danger, if you threw them together?"
Sherlock shivers a little. "Dirty talk in the morning, John?"
"Only because you like danger." John lets his lips stretch in a smile. Not the usual ones, soft or conciliatory. Not even his angry smile (which duly scares Sherlock). No, the one on his lips now is similar to that one, but more teasing. It's not a promise of murder. Just a, "want to see how far I can go?"
The answer is, always, yes. "We do, Captain," Sherlock purrs. And isn't that true.
"Come back to bed. That's an order."
