Finally (Bloody Optional)
Molly is happy for Sherlock. Really, she is. Sure, she had a crush – who wouldn't? He's literally "tall dark and handsome". Romance book material. And clearly, her gaydar is non-existent. (Jim was...embarrassing, on so many levels.) But just because she's pined for a shamefully long time, it doesn't mean that she wishes it on anyone else. And that even she cottoned on before these two...You wouldn't believe that one was the world's only consulting detective, acclaimed for his cleverness, capable of reading feelings in the shade of gift paper and finding clues in everything, and the other an army doctor with an ample list of conquests, both things that should have taught him to assess situations in a snap.
"Men," she'd huff, if it was true. Because, really, they're both brilliant in their own ways, but emotionally speaking? Men, indeed. But it's not just that. Because there are plenty men, in their entourage, that – just like her, and often earlier than her – have seen what was blatant. What these two adorable idiots have only yesterday figured out.
Better late than never, as they say. But still – it's a damn shame that it took them years to become a couple. She can't imagine how other people coped, given that she's been late to the party, and she's had time to grow frustrated with the two of them. Frustrated to the point of actually wondering if she should have done something, anything, to give them a push. She had considered literally shoving them – in a supply closet, or against each other in hope for a kiss, or in a number of other situations. But weight and training were against her.
She'll have to ask Greg why he never did, though. He'd be more of a match for them, and if she has daydreamed about it, he surely has, too. The man is a cop; for all the ways Sherlock disparages him sometimes, he must have seen what was happening from the first week, if not the first day.
Mrs. Hudson, of course, couldn't get physical with the two of them. No, she just dropped hints. But during a shared tea, when Molly was at the height of her frustration and actually asked, she admitted her shame. If Sherlock's history had been just a mite different, his landlady'd long have drugged them into giving in to their desires.
"Then again, if that boy's history had been different, we would have never met," she sighed. Molly had smiled awkwardly, and agreed that calculating the right dose would be too much trouble. Sure, there were also ethical concerns, but out of all the British population, Sherlock would have no moral grounds to complain.
Any of John's exes? Christ, the man had complained at her that they all considered Sherlock competition. Never heard that old adage? 'If you meet a crazy person, you met a crazy person. If everyone you meet is crazy, you are the one with the problem.' After the third, or fifth, or seventh if you are really stubborn, it's time for some soul-searching. Or Sherlock-searching.
Journalists, clients, enemies, friends and family, random fans that just read the blog or watched the news. Everyone saw the way they loved each other. Oh God, speaking of family...she can't imagine how Mycroft restrained himself all along from doing something drastic. Probably just the knowledge that Sherlock would do anything to spite him, and not wanting to discover just how far into masochism his little brother would go to antagonize him.
But the second-hand strain on the collective sanity is finished, thank Bastet. John's blog latest update announces that they're together, in every sense of the word. Molly keeps refreshing to giggle at the comments. They come in two main flavours. "Finally!" (bloody optional) and "What? You were together all along, why the sham?" You can spot who has actually met them and who is just a follower by the side they pick.
Now, the only question is - are they going to get married? And if yes, would it annoy John if her gift consisted in Sherlock having his pick of organs out of the morgue once they come back from the honeymoon?
