Even the dead knew
It takes John a stupid long time to recognise that he's in love with Sherlock. He's...fascinated, sure. In awe, who wouldn't be. He loves the man, even. But he's not in love. That would be ridiculous. Sherlock doesn't do romance, and he's not gay, and – so many ands he could fill a bloody essay. Well, it turns out, if he'd ever written that, it would be a long, long series of bullshit.
Eventually, though, he manages to catch up. After everyone and their mum, sure, which is very embarrassing, but still. He still wonders how the journalists who barely saw them interact figured him out. All he'd done was try to stop any given press conference from turning into a crime scene of its own – by Sherlock's hand – but surely mates did that, didn't they?
The girlfriends... Ok that was even more awkward. After he's finally got with the program, he texts one of them at random and asks what tipped her off. It took him losing Sherlock and losing a wife and figuring out he'd only felt like a widower once, and he'd been secretly relieved the other, and wasn't that something for his therapist. Which means he's an even bigger idiot than Sherlock always said, but for some reason, Sherlock is still gone on him, and seems to never have stopped grinning since they shared their feelings (and John kissed a couple neurons out of him).
Tania (wait, who was she? Never mind, really) actually calls him back. "You really think that it wasn't obvious where your priorities lay?" she huffs at him.
"I, uh, well." On second thought, maybe it should have been. But the cases meant saving people (even if maybe 'people' was only Sherlock, who had the self-preservation instinct of a lemming on cocaine even stone cold sober), so – he had a reason, didn't he?
Before he can articulate any of this (not that he hasn't tried to say it back then), she adds, "Anyway, what really clinched it for me was when I read a Marilyn Monroe interview, believe it or not."
"What?" He's pretty sure they don't have anything in common with a long-dead actress born the same year as the Queen (the weird trivia he learns from spending time with Mrs. Hudson will never end.)
"Yeah, there was a line about the real lover being the one who can thrill you even just staring into space. So, well. You invited me to come upstairs, and I had hopes, I won't say I didn't. But Sherlock was just...lying on the sofa, and I thought maybe he was having a nap, even. But you made me turn right on my heels (and they were pretty heels that day), because apparently that meant that the solution of the case you'd missed our last date for was close, that he was figuring it out and absolutely couldn't be disturbed. I swear, I could almost see you wag a tail, all excited, over...what? He wasn't even staring into space. Sure, maybe Marilyn didn't have the best track with romance herself, but on that? I was willing to trust her."
"Oh." Because what can you say to that? It's not like she's wrong. Or like he doesn't find every single thing Sherlock says, does and thinks (as much as he's privy to them) adorable, thrilling, brilliant and someone stop him before he goes on a rant again.
"So, what was this all about?" He'd called out of the blue; it's a wonder she didn't ask first.
"Just wondering what everyone else saw that I didn't notice in the mirror till almost too late." He rubbed his nape, even if she couldn't see it.
"Almost, so – are you happy now? With him?" Her voice is kind.
"Yeah."
"I'm happy now, too. And neither of us would be if I didn't run then, so. Cheers to us."
"Cheers, and thank you." A goodbye, and he hung up.
Moments later, Sherlock came in, carrying a bag. A quick kiss, and John asked, "So, what did Molly have for you?"
"You'll see," his boyfriend answered, with an enthusiastic grin. "What have you been doing?"
"Investigating how much of an idiot I was. Would you believe even long-dead people could see through us?"
"Long-dead people as in...?" The bag dropped, already forgotten.
"Sadly, no case. But make sure that won't spoil, and I'll tell you."
