"I'm bored," whined Sherlock pitifully. He flopped down onto the sofa with a groan and a deep sigh. "No cases for five whole days. FIVE days, John! Honestly, the criminal underworld is slacking a little, if you ask me. I'd make such a good criminal. In fact, if – "
"Now, Sherlock, you can't go around saying things like that." John interrupted sternly. "We've talked about this before. And, I know you're bored, but what more can you do? I'm sorry, but I can't give you another chance."
Sherlock had set John's favourite jumper on fire out of complete boredom a week ago, saying it was crucial for a case ('
') which he then wrote a lengthy blog about. Which, of course, John had been extremely upset about for numerous days. Four, to be precise. Sherlock had counted.
That was only on the first day without a case.
Sherlock supposed he should feel guilty – and maybe he did, just a little bit, or possibly even 
 than that (which he was sure John would deem 'a bit not good'), but he wasn't quite sure if it was. It only felt like a little hard edge of something unidentifiable – possibly guilt. After all, Sherlock had felt that twisting feeling in his stomach for a second when he saw how upset John was and how his flatmate hadn't spoken to him for a day, hadn't made him tea when he made his own, the stormy, mutinous silence that rested heavily in the air.
However, just then, they were surprised out of their argument (the extremely bored expression on Sherlock's face immediately slipped and replaced itself with a scowl, and John simply looked taken by surprise, as per usual) by the sound of footsteps ascending the stairs accompanied by the clacking of a very familiar umbrella.
The impatient tapping of Sherlock's fingers on the wooden coffee table beside him finally ceased (which John hadn't realised was repetitive Morse code, tapping out 
) – and a smirk drew itself up on his face when he deduced who it was.
The person swung open the door, a stony fury marking their usual mildly expressive face.
"
brother mine, would you care to explain why the 
 – " he began to grind out, "you have caused 
 among the public from a 
 story about how the extremely harmless caesium-137 is being used as a 
 by the Russians to attack Britain?"
It was, of course, Mycroft Holmes – Sherlock's imperious elder brother (the mere '
' with the tight false smile and the air of effortless power.)
The detective's grin only grew further (choosing to ignore John's angry sarcastic mutterings of "
This was going to be fun.
