First kisses
It is a silly idea. A silly, crazy, reckless idea, that will probably blow up on his face. Then again, John invaded Afghanistan. And sure, Sherlock rebuffed his flirting that first night at Angelo's. But he's certainly been getting mixed messages ever since. And if even he could see it, despite being, as his flatmate would say, an idiot, there must be hope. At least a sliver.
Frankly speaking, John is exhausted with the whole keeping quiet, and pretending he's not been in love all along. If he's wrong, he'll just beg Sherlock to delete everything. There's at least one chance that Sherlock would agree to do so. Who else would do the shopping? Mrs. Hudson?
He's not writing Sherlock poetry. That's as much as he can promise. But Valentine's Day is coming, and while it's the most corny, cliché thing to do, the part of John's soul which is a damn traditionalist decided it's the perfect occasion to bare his feelings. Of course, he can't get his beloved a nice murder to accompany his declaration (he doubts Moriarty would oblige, even if John was insane enough to ask).
But they've had a case in Italy in the past year, and John discovered one little thing that burrowed itself into his brain like a happy mole. John fears that, if he doesn't find a way to lead into his confession, he will stammer, let the matter choke in awkwardness and doubts as always. He needs to force his own hand. And he might have found a way to do that.
He's going to let his gift speak for him. A tiny gift, one that will not last, not even needing to be disposed of in case John has, again, missed everything of importance. One single chocolate, with a hazelnut heart. In itself, almost nothing. But every one of them comes with a slip of paper, a romantic line translated into four languages in it. And now, they're also customizable. There will be no chance for John to back down, if the chocolate starts the conversation. Besides, these are called Baci, meaning kisses. And even if everything goes wrong, he'll be able to say he gave Sherlock one kiss. Yes, it might be pathetic, but the idea makes him smile.
When Valentine's day comes, John doesn't even have a shift. He knew he wouldn't be able to concentrate fully on his job, not while he was fretting over the possible results of today. While he isn't a field surgeon anymore, he wouldn't forgive himself if his distraction made him mess up a diagnosis. Breakfast is completely normal. Of course it is, John is going to shake things up, and he can't do it on empty. Or at least that's what he thought.
Halfway through the morning, Sherlock leaves the sofa and walks up to him – no, stalks up to him. One second ago he was lounging on the sofa, in a sulk, John would have sworn (par for the course, without a case at hand). And now John feels weirdly like a bird in front of a cat. Not that Sherlock would hurt him, but... Sherlock's hand dips into a pocket, and when it opens, right in front of his nose, John has to check that he hasn't been pickpocketed at some point. But 
 chocolate is still in his own pocket, so what?
"You didn't think that you could keep your little plan a secret, did you? John, you don't even know how to erase your searchhistory!" Sherlock huffs. John takes a deep breath. He should have known. "Ok, but if you did go through it, you don't get to claim any credit for predicting it. I mean, I know it's not a fortune cookie, but..." He shows his chocolate, offering it in exchange. Yes, possibly he's rambling. He's just wondering if giving him another one in reply is Sherlock's idea of a sweet let down, and swallows a slightly histerical laugh.
"There was no reason for me to crack your customer account. Though I can say that you didn't pick one of the suggestions already offered." Neither has made a move to actually take their gift. As if the risk is terrifying both.
"Uh?" Eloquent, John.
"Thank you for your patience." They both burst into giggles, and just like that, all tension is forgotten.
"Right on that. Come on. Aren't you curious?"
They exchange gifts, and Sherlock opens his own. The actual chocolate lays immediately forgotten, on its wrapping, on the low table of the sitting room. John watches him read the words he's picked after way too long pondering. "I definitely think he might be mad but he was also strangely likeable. He was charming. (...) Me and the madman. Me and Sherlock Holmes."
"That's your blog. About the day we met." Which is odd, because usually Sherlock doesn't state the obvious, but – it's not a bad reaction. Then again, it was only meant to introduce the matter at hand.
"Yes," he confirms anyway.
When he makes to open the chocolate he's received, though, Sherlock...almost yells, "Stop!"
John freezes, of course he does, and says, "I didn't think there was a customize option even for the recipe. Experimenting again?"
"No, I...I picked the wrong message. I mean, sure, they said you could do this for parents and anyone you wanted to, but – I'd thought that..."
So it is a response, then. And now Sherlock is embarrassed he might be snarking about an offer that didn't come.
"You are right – as usual. But, uh, would you mind eating that? For me? I don't want it to go wasted just because you might not agree with the sentiment."
"Our first meeting, John. What's there to disagree with?" But then, obediently, Sherlock pops the chocolate into his mouth.
"The truth. What my friends have seen since that post, and you've immediately deduced, and I've denied all along. Because – I had reasons, plenty of reasons I thought, but the truth is – these are meant to have love sentences in them, and they do. I was gone on you since back then. Obvious, too. Look at the comments! But lately I've hoped, mind you, I might be wrong, but I thought maybe you would be more...interested. " Oh God he's rambling. He doesn't understand himself, almost. What is Sherlock meant to deduce from that?
"Love sentences as in... In love sentences?" Sherlock frowns, which should send John into a panic, but at this point he's not sure if it's a sign of displeasure or, reasonably even, sheer confusion. He still nods, stiff, because he hasn't gone this far to suddenly chicken out.
"John, eat your chocolate." The frown has eased, and there's a thrumming energy in the detective's eyes, but also a sudden softness.
"Is it safe?" he jokes, weakly. It wouldn't be the first time (or the last, it's not like he suspects his flatmate of adding hemlock to the recipe). It's not impossible that there's a little extra in it.
"Eat it, please."
Whatever it might say, at least he's getting chocolate. John swallows it, closing his eyes, not daring to look what the message might be. But he can't keep this up indefinitely, as tempting as it might be. Finally, he reads, "I crave your mouth/your voice, your hair/Silent and starving, I prowl/through the streets." Instead of an author's mention, though, it's signed SH.
Obviously. there's only one possible course of action. The kiss tastes like chocolate and hazelnut, but both seem determined to lick the other's mouth clean to get to the untainted, inimitable taste underneath. Finally, lack of oxygen forces them to separate. For a moment. Because the kisses, for sure, aren't going to stop.
