The words Sherlock had spoken to Irene Alder so long ago were circling around in his head. Sherlock had lied through his teeth to Irene. Love was not a mystery to him, and it had nothing to do with chemistry. Sherlock loved his family, despite all the shit he started with Mycroft. He also loved his friends. Oh, he'd always known Greg's name, he even knew the mans favorite coffee order, his favorite foods, even his favorite color. Same with Molly Hooper. Sherlock could never be what Molly needed or deserved, it was why he was so cruel to her, he wanted her to give up on him and find someone who was worth her attentions.
But above all, Sherlock Holmes loved John Watson.
Sherlock had known from the moment in the taxi when John had praised his abilities, that John was going to break his heart. It was partly why he was played up that he was interested in Irene. She was the complete opposite of John and Sherlock had always known that his and Irene's relationship wasn't going anywhere. Granted, Sherlock had planned on her falling in love with him, useful as it turned out to be, but still. Irene was the proverbial "safe option".
Sherlock had quickly fallen in love with John and despite what he had told Irene, he didn't think that love and sentiment were a defect, no matter how much he currently wished they were. Because right now, Sherlock was praying to a God he had never believed in that something would make the pain stop.
It was a special kind of hell, having to stand there and watch John marry someone else. To have to help plan the wedding and watch John be so sickeningly in love with someone that wasn't him. To make matters worse, Sherlock had no one but himself to blame for it. What he had done, faking his death, had opened the door for Mary and she had walked right in. Sherlock couldn't even be mad at her for being so drawn to John's light, because he was just the same. A moth drawn to the light of John Watson.
'
The pain of it was unlike anything Sherlock had ever experienced. But nevertheless, Sherlock had done his best to lock the feelings away and give John the wedding he deserved. The murder had livened things up a little, and Sherlock had felt like it was the last hurrah for him and John. But eventually, even that too was over.
Sherlock had stuck around as long as he could. He played the piece he had composed, and generally done all the things the Best Man was supposed to do. He had gently rejected the Maid of Honor when she had invited him back to her room, danced with both Molly and Mrs. Hudson, and even Mary. But soon enough, Sherlock had to leave or risk breaking down where John could see. He hadn't missed the sympathetic looks from Mrs. Hudson and Greg as he silently left, but Sherlock ignored it. They didn't matter right now.
Sherlock was almost painfully desperate for a hit that he knew would make the pain go away. It was only the thought of what John would do and the look he would wear that made it possible to resist.
Sherlock paid the cabbie far more than the fare was worth before bolting for the front door. He was thankful that Mrs. Hudson was staying the night at the hotel. Sherlock didn't want anyone around to see or hear the impending breakdown, and it was going to be an ugly messy one, Sherlock could just feel it.
'
Sherlock stumbled up the stairs, vision already blurry with tears. He fumbled into the flat, his breath already hitching in his chest as he scrambled to find the light switch. He managed to locate it and light flooded the flat that he once shared with the man he loved.
Sherlock wasn't expecting for the light to illuminate the form of his older brother
He had noticed Mycroft lurking in the back during the ceremony itself before the older man had slipped out.
Mycroft looked at him and his face immediately softened.
"Oh, Sherlock." Mycroft murmured softly and sadly.
And that was it. Those few, softly spoken words were all it took to completely break him.
In an instant Sherlock's knees gave out and he sunk into his big brother's arms, sobbing. Mycroft easily took his weight and settled the pair of them more comfortably on the floor. He gently carded his fingers through Sherlock's messy curls as he'd once done so many years ago when Sherlock was little and still turned to Mycroft for comfort from his nightmares. He listened as his little brother sobbed out his broken heart and felt his own heart crack a little.
Mycroft wished there was something he could do to take the pain away, but even with all the power he wielded, there was nothing Mycroft could do to make this better. All he could do was be here as an anchor for his brother and try and make sure sherlock didn't sink back into old, bad habits to try and make the pain go away.
"I am sorry, brother mine. I never wanted this pain for you." Mycroft whispered into Sherlock's hair.
Sherlock didn't answer, just held on tighter to his brother and sobbed.
Eventually they both knew that the sobs would stop, Sherlock would dry his face, and attempt to pick up the broken pieces of his heart and go on. But for someone like Sherlock, the pain wouldn't stop, and it wouldn't go away. It would be just another thing for him to learn to live with.
Yet another crack in the broken mirror of his brother.
