He was late! Sherlock Holmes did not mind being late for many great things but being late for this was unacceptable. It wasn't minutes, it wasn't hours, he was days late. The case had taken far too long because some new detective had made a stupid mistake and the suspect had managed to evade them for a further 36 hours. He had refrained from calling the lad an idiot. Sherlock Holmes was actually learning civility nowadays, but only just. The mistake had Sherlock winding up in Scotland before they actually apprehended the man on the run and now he was so very late. Thoughts scrambled his brain as he climbed the stairs to 221b, shopping bags in tow. He just hoped she wouldn't be too mad at him.
Molly Hooper watched as Sherlock crashed into the living room like a whirlwind. She knew to expect Sherlock home, not that she'd heard as much from the man himself. No, Sherlock was far too distracted to let her know he was on his way, but John had warned her and Molly supposed she could forgive him given the reasoning for his panic. She rolled her eyes lovingly as he dropped several shopping bags onto the dining table, some confectionery spilling out onto the floor. He cursed under his breath before sweeping towards her to press an absent-minded kiss to her lips before returning to the kitchen and hastily filling the kettle, flicking it on. He retrieved his target item from the small "special" cupboard he'd isolated for such necessities and started bustling around the bags again. Thus was his monthly routine, although usually, he was accurately on time and a lot less hurried.
"Molly, I am so sorry. The suspect got away and there was far more travelling than I expected and now I am days late but I promise I have not appeared empty-handed! Oh no, I have procured that chocolate you like, you know the one from that independent shop in the city? I forget the name." His signature hand waving accompanied his lightning-fast spiel. "Also a bar of Cadbury's marvellous creations which I finally found in the third shop. I have those terribly sugary gummy sweets you like, both the fruit pastilles and the squashies because I didn't know which you would be in the mood for. I have both of your favourite flavours of crisps and two tubes of Pringles." He showed her each item with a dazed flourish as he pulled each from the bags and placed his assortment on the table. "To apologise for my lateness I have also bought you new fluffy socks, fleece pyjamas and a new blanket. I tried to find a film to watch but they were all so mundane so I bought us an online film voucher so you can choose. I'll just get this sorted and then-
He finally searched for her eyes but when he looked up she was no longer in the living room. Instead, she was standing by his side at the sink. Her sudden closeness almost made him jump but the sensation was much too lovely to revolt at.
"What are you doing?"
His petite girlfriend pushed herself up onto her toes to press a kiss to her deliriously adorable boyfriend's cheek.
"I'm saying hello. What are you doing?"
He gave her one of his 'isn't it obvious' looks and emphasised his hands.
"I'm filling your hot water bottle."
She laughed and removed said item from his hands, placing it back into the cupboard he'd retrieved it from, avoiding the many cramp relief meds that were clumsily balanced in there.
"I don't need you to, Sherlock. But thank you."
She tugged his hands so he was facing her and he leaned back against the counter with such a look of confusion on his face it was almost animated.
"But, Molly, it's that time-"
"I know."
"So surely you need-"
"Nope."
"Oh." His brow was creased in such a way that Molly itched to smooth it out with her fingers. "Is it not so bad this month?"
"You could say that."
Molly, for years, had suffered from the period pains from hell. Every month as her body screamed at her for not giving it a child, she ended up bedded and bound to a hot water bottle whenever she could be. Sherlock had quickly noticed this, had noticed even before he pursued her romantically after that dreadful phone call. She recalled his attention to her period cycle starting after he returned from his fall. She supposed he had observed her in the time he spent at her flat while he was 'dead' and he'd noted what and when and why and how he could help. Initially, it was just things for the cramps. She'd find a pain relief pill packet in her bag in the lab. After her engagement ended, there was the sudden appearance of a hot water bottle in the night. She knew, she knew , she should have berated him for sneaking into her flat at night but when his sole goal was to conjure up a hot water bottle and slide it into her bed without waking her, who was she to complain? Neither of them had said anything when she began leaving a hot water bottle on the kitchen side for him, which he would dutifully fill and switch with the now cold one she slept with. It was after Mary's death that those frivolous actions became evenings spent together, when just company was necessary. No talking. She'd fall asleep on her sofa to the sound of his violin and she'd wake in her bed with a (now cold) hot water bottle on her stomach and a couple of pills and pint of water on her table. Even when he was high and then consequently detoxing, he had kept up with those painkillers appearing in her bag or coat pocket. When he got clean again was when he began bringing food. This too started out just as deliveries until they turned into nights spent talking about cases over chocolates and foot rubs and crap films or crime documentaries.
Then came that phone call. Right in the middle of one of her weeks from hell. It was not the only reason she was having a bad day that day, but you ask any woman what kind of day she's having when her uterus is seeking a bloody revenge and see what she tells you. And she was mad, oh she was seething with rage but also teeming with worry because something was just wrong about that call, she knew it. And then he'd shown up at her door at 4 am with a bag full of chocolate, an explanation and a confession of love. A real one this time. Of his own volition. Since then, his period attentiveness had amplified tenfold, but again she wasn't complaining. Although, she was running out of space for blankets and fleece pyjamas - never fluffy socks though, one can never have too many fluffy socks.
So here she was, smiling at her ridiculous boyfriend as she watched the cogs turn behind his cerulean eyes. Eyes that became bright with electricity and she almost thought he'd figured it out, but alas, all he said was:
"That's good. That means you're in less pain. Is it still as …"
He made a downward gesture with his hand. Oh yes, the great Sherlock Holmes was like any other man when it came to discussing how light or heavy his girlfriend's period is. She slipped her hands around his shoulders and stepped closer, his hands instinctively came to wrap around her waist.
"Sherlock, I'm not on my period."
"Oh."
She raised her eyebrow, waiting for the penny to drop. It didn't.
"I don't understand."
"I didn't get my period this month."
Another wrinkled frown and dip of the pursed in thought lips.
"Sherlock," she grabbed his face in her hands, making him focus on her eyes, "I didn't get my period because I'm pregnant."
He blinked. Once. Twice. Three times. He took a breath as if he was going to speak, opened his mouth and closed it again. Another blink. A shake of the head and then … a smile. A smile as wide as she'd ever seen one.
"Pregnant?"
The twinkle in his eye was infectious and her face broke into a matching grin.
"Yes."
"Really?"
Her eyes were blurring behind her tears. He looked so unapologetically happy, he looked so unequivocally beautiful, he looked so him . A few of his own stray tears trickled down her fingers, still resting on his chiselled cheeks.
"Really."
Sherlock sighed a shaking breath, the emotion in the layers of it palpable, before crashing his lips onto hers. He pulled her as close as possible and carded his fingers through her hair. He felt her smile against his mouth as tears of joy mingled on their cheeks. This miracle before him was carrying an even bigger miracle inside of her. His Molly and his child. His miracle. This woman had given him everything he had never known he wanted and now here she was, adding to that list. Until now, he didn't know he wanted to be a father. But oh, he couldn't imagine anything more wonderful.
"Marry me."
It tumbled out of him before he could stop it and at the look of shock on her face, he almost backtracked. But then a fresh wave of tears appeared and a smile brighter than any star erupted across her freckled features.
"I thought you'd never ask."
He didn't need a yes or a no. The love infused kiss that landed on his lips told him everything he needed to know.
