"Are you awake?"
Greg groaned. He thought he was but, if he was, it meant he was lying on something cold and hard.
"Lestrade?"
He moved his hand, and felt bits of grit underneath it. Where the hell was he? Greg decided that opening his eyes might help and did so. There was a faint light coming from somewhere that helped him see the stony floor, the grit, and a pair of long, thin feet encased in expensive-looking black shoes. Vaguely, he wondered how much Sherlock spent on his shoes, and where he found them to fit. Maybe he got them handmade.
"Yes, my shoes are handmade, but I hardly see how that's relevant at the moment."
Oh, he was talking out loud.
"Yes, you are. It would help if you made a little more sense."
Greg swallowed, licked his lips and tried. "Where are we?"
"In a cellar - a coal hole to be precise."
"Kidnapped."
"Yes."
"John?"
"Astoundingly, no. I'm sure he'll be delighted to miss out on this experience."
Well, it would make a change for the poor bloke. Greg sometimes wondered if John had had a habit of getting kidnapped before he met up with Sherlock; he'd certainly developed the habit of it afterwards. It took an effort, but Greg managed to get one hand underneath himself and pushed up. With Sherlock's help, he rolled onto his side. "Why are we in a coal hole?"
Sherlock looked almost pleased, for some reason. "Because our kidnappers have put us here."
"If you're gonna be snide..." With a bit more effort, and a hand from Sherlock, Greg managed to sit up, leaning against the wall behind him.
"No snideness intended. Our kidnappers have put us in this coal hole and locked us in." Sherlock rose to his feet and paced back and forth. "The coal hole doors are also locked." He stalked off to stand underneath the aforementioned doors, light filtering in around their edges. "I could pick the lock, if I could reach it."
"You can't pick the lock on the other door?" Greg put up a hand and felt his head gingerly. No pain...they'd been drugged then. He felt it quite unfair that Sherlock - who had to weigh less than Greg, given how thin he was - had managed to bounce back so quickly.
"I could." Sherlock turned, his alert gaze meeting Greg's. "But I can't do anything about the bolts on the other side."
Okay, bang went that idea. Greg squinted at the doors above Sherlock's head. The light wasn't just coming from around the doors, in some places, it was shining through. "They don't look that sturdy."
"Which leads me to hope that I'll be able to break the doors open if they're bolted once I've picked the lock. I just need height to do it." Sherlock looked at Greg again, obviously expecting him to get the point.
Greg frowned. Sherlock wasn't tall enough, so he wouldn't be tall enough either. "Oh, no." Greg measured the distance with his eyes. "Hands and knees, I suppose?"
"Elbows and knees will do, once you feel up to it. It'll do no good if you start sinking."
"I suppose there's no chance of rescue?"
Sherlock came and squatted down in front of Greg. "There's a possibility. We were outside 221B when they grabbed us."
"But...?"
"I heard them talking. Once their boss arrives, we're to be disposed of."
"Oh, great. I hate waiting." Greg leaned his head back and gazed at Sherlock. "How long do we have?"
"Not that long."
"Okay, then. Let's get moving." He grabbed Sherlock's arm and between them, they got him up and on his feet. Greg privately thought it was a waste of time, seeing as he'd soon be on his hands and knees, but he let Sherlock haul him up, and forced his knees to stiffen so he could stagger towards the doors. Maybe walking would help dissipate the rest of the damned drug. Less than ten steps later, they were there, and Greg sank into a controlled collapse, folding his arms, and locking his elbows and shoulders in place to support himself.
"Ready?"
Greg let his head sink down towards the floor, and mentally crossed his fingers. "Go." He felt a foot on the base of his back, then - "Jesus Christ, you weigh a bloody ton!" Fortunately for Greg's hips, Sherlock put his other foot on his shoulder blades and the weight eased off his knees slightly. "How much do you weigh anyway?!" Greg demanded, his voice sounding strained, even to his own ears. For someone who looked so thin, Sherlock was surprisingly solid.
"Do you really want to discuss my weight now?" Sherlock asked, a distracted tone in his voice.
"Not really."
"Then why ask?"
"Oh...just to pass the time." Greg really hoped Sherlock would get a move on; he wasn't sure how long he could hold out.
"Just one more...minute!"
There was a click, which Greg recognised as the sound of a lock sliding back, a pause, Sherlock's weight left his back, the cellar was flooded with light, then Sherlock's weight abruptly returned, seemingly more heavy than ever. It was too much for Greg, and he collapsed. The weight disappeared off his back, and he heard Sherlock stagger, then there was a heavy thud. Despite his exhaustion, Greg managed to lift his head a little, but Sherlock was already back on his feet. "Not hurt then," he muttered.
"I'm fine."
A warm hand landed on Greg's shoulders, and he fought off the urge to groan; he was aching all over.
"Are you all right?" Sherlock was leaning in closely, his attention totally focussed, despite the beckoning daylight pouring down around them.
"Just tell me we can get out," Greg panted.
Sherlock nodded. "You're going to have to stand up though."
Greg turned his head, and stared up the wall at the open door. From where he was, it looked like Mount Everest. "You're never going to be able to get me up there." And he sure as hell couldn't take a running jump.
"I'm not leaving you behind," Sherlock said, flatly.
"Get help." Greg found himself hauled back into a sitting position, and did his best to stare Sherlock down. "Come back for me."
"There isn't time!"
"Listen to me... If you're gone, they can't kill us both." Sherlock was shaking his head, but Greg insisted, "They're more likely to leave me alive -"
"It's Henderson."
Greg stared at him, feeling his heart sink, and hoping to God that Sherlock didn't mean what Greg thought he meant.
"Henderson had us kidnapped."
"Then it's me they're after." There went Greg's chances of staying alive then. "Get out of here, Sherlock. Get the hell out now."
Sherlock stared at him, then shifted his gaze to the open space above. Abruptly, he stood up. "Don't go anywhere," he said. He backed up and took a running jump. There were scrambling sounds, and bits of dirt and grass drifted down to join Greg in his prison.
"Where the hell am I going to go?" Greg asked, then he sighed. Well, that was it then. At least Sherlock could get away - could tell Greg's team who'd kidnapped him and who was responsible for Greg's murder. Henderson...of all people, it had to be him. Well, at least Henderson's usual executioner was in prison, courtesy of Greg - hence the whole vendetta Henderson had sworn. As his breathing slowed back to normal, Greg wrapped his arms around himself. He'd give himself a few more minutes - assuming he had them - then try to get up. If he had long enough, maybe he could even try a running jump. On the bright side, Sherlock had gone and would, undoubtedly, bring back help, regardless of whether it was too late or not, so Henderson's usual long, drawn out execution would have to be shortened. Heck, Henderson might even have to satisfy himself with simply shooting Greg through the head. And wasn't that a cheery thought?
There was a rattle of metal, and Greg's first thought was of the keys needed to unlock the door to his cell. He stared over at the door, then realised it was coming from above his head. He looked up, just in time to see the foot of a large, metal ladder appear in the gap and begin to descend. It thudded to a halt, then expensive shoes appeared and Sherlock scrambled down the ladder.
"I don't believe it."
Sherlock looked very, very pleased with himself. "There was a potting shed; I borrowed their ladder." He grabbed Greg's arm and dragged him upright once more. "Let's go."
Greg stuck his foot on the bottom rung and began climbing. He was aching all over and he felt incredibly shaky, but he was damned if he was going to give up now. He reached the top and crawled out onto the overgrown grass, Sherlock right behind him. He'd barely got clear before Sherlock began pulling up the ladder.
"What are you doing that for?" Greg demanded, annoyed that he was back to panting for breath.
"Confusion. They'll wonder how we got out. It might give us a few more minutes." The ladder thudded into the grass, then Greg heard the door drop shut. "And they'll have to come around to this side of the house to pick up our tracks."
"Tracks, right." As Sherlock hauled him to his feet once more - and Greg was feeling a little tired of leaving it all to Sherlock - Greg asked, "How come this is affecting me so much more than you?" He really felt it wasn't fair.
Sherlock smiled as he pulled Greg's arm across his shoulders and they set off towards the nearby trees. "They gave you a bigger dose."
"What?" Greg had a strong suspicion that had to count as cheating. "How do you know that?"
"When they were talking. They were worried they'd given you too much." His gaze met Greg's. "You needed to be conscious to witness my death before they started on yours."
"Why did they give me more in the first place anyway?" Not that it was that important now - the drug seemed to be finally wearing off.
"You're not the only one who calls me thin. Henderson's incompetent henchmen were afraid of giving me too much."
"They don't know you then." Privately, Greg thought Sherlock had the constitution of an ox.
Sherlock gave him one of his small, amused smiles. "Fortunately for both of us."
"That's true." They reached the trees, and Greg grabbed a branch, leaning on it heavily to take some of his weight off Sherlock. If Henderson's men hadn't been so cautious, he and Sherlock would still be in that coal cellar. "Now what do we do?"
"Keep going. Even the dullest intellect will work out that we aren't in the cellar so we must have escaped, and I don't think we want them to catch up with us." He pushed some branches aside and peered out. "I saw a church spire in this direction."
"I wonder where we are."
"Somewhere relatively rural." He turned back to Greg. "Ready to go?"
Greg nodded. "Ready when you are." He was damned if he was going to slow Sherlock down.
They staggered forward again, Greg doing his best to keep on his feet and keep moving. If Henderson caught them, they might as well have stayed in the coal cellar. It didn't take them long to reach a tall hedge, and Greg clung to it while Sherlock scouted ahead. It didn't seem more than a minute before he was back, grabbing Greg's arm again and hauling him forward.
By the time they actually got anywhere, Greg was more than tired of how knackered he felt and of Sherlock hauling him forward, over, or under. He lifted his face from the grass he'd landed in and stared at Sherlock's shoes. They really were nice shoes.
"Lestrade?"
"Still here."
"You seem to be obsessed with my shoes."
"I can't help it. You keep on showing them to me."
"If we live through this, I'll buy you a pair."
Greg found himself being hauled upright again. "I'll hold you to that."
They reached another hedge and Greg clung to it like a long lost friend. Beside him, Sherlock gave a whoop of excitement and he left Greg to vault over a nearby gate. Greg tried very hard to not resent Sherlock for his boundless energy. The git. Then there was the noise of car doors slamming and Greg saw John and Donovan come through the gateway.
"It's good to see you, sir," Donovan said, before pulling Greg's arm across her shoulder.
John did the same on his other side, despite Greg's protests that he was sure he could make it to the car.
"Let me be the expert on that," John said.
To Greg's surprise, there was no sign of Sherlock when they got to the other side of the hedge.
"He's taking Inspector Dimmock to Henderson's house," Donovan told him as she helped John guide him into the back seat.
Greg resisted the urge to sigh with relief now he was sitting down and not expected to go anywhere. "Who else is with them?"
"Don't worry, sir; there's an armed response team with them."
And that was all Greg could get out of her. To be sidelined in such a way was annoying, at best, but Greg soon lost interest when John's penlight and retinal check encouraged his aching head to turn into a blinding headache. With Donovan kneeling on the seat beside him, her bust was at the right height to be used as a cushion but Greg figured she'd probably punch him if he tried and it'd serve him right if he did. Instead, he leaned his head against the seat back and listened to John order the driver to head back to town.
Greg sighed and blinked. His eyelids were feeling heavy. He let them slide shut, then forced them open when Donovan started taking his pulse. Only Donovan had somehow morphed into John. Greg gave him a confused look, decided it was better to not ask, and went back to sleep.
~'~
Waking up at the hospital was less fun but Greg wasn't stupid and he accepted being rushed into A&E for a battery of tests, an I.V. drip and an overnight stay because, while he wanted to get Henderson and his goons for murder, Greg would prefer it to not be 
 murder. As it turned out, he needn't have worried about Henderson.
"Just tell me Sherlock wasn't the one who shot him."
Donovan scoffed. "As if anyone would have given him a gun. No, sir, it was Taylor from armed response. One shot, straight through the heart."
Which meant Henderson had got a far cleaner death than any of his victims. Greg sincerely hoped there was a God Who'd right that particular wrong. "What about the others?"
"We got them all, sir. Now Henderson's gone, the rest of them are trying to plea bargain."
Greg didn't envy the CPS or the people responsible for putting together the prosecution cases. At least Greg and his team didn't have to worry about that.
"The doctor said you'll be out of here by tomorrow."
Greg grinned. "And tomorrow's my day off. I could do with a quiet day in. It'll make a nice change from being dragged around by Sherlock."
Donovan nodded and headed for the door, then she stopped and looked back at him. "He did save your life, sir. Henderson would have killed you if he'd got near you." She added, with an almost reluctant tone in her voice, "He didn't have to do that."
"No, he didn't. I told him to get out and save himself, but he wouldn't."
She gave him another nod and left. Greg pursed up his lips in a soundless whistle. Well, well. Maybe Donovan was slowly coming around.
~'~
Greg scowled and headed towards his front door as the obnoxious knocking continued. Whoever was banging hell out of his door - on his day off, no less - had better have a good excuse, Greg thought, or he was going to give in to his baser instincts and arrest them for pissing him off. To his surprise, it was Sherlock.
"It's my day off."
Sherlock gave him one of his patented looks (Look #17: How are you still alive when you're so stupid?). "I know."
"So I have no cases for you."
The look deepened into the one reserved for Anderson. "We're going shoe shopping."
And that was how Greg ended up with a pair of shoes that were the envy of Scotland Yard.
The end.
