Grandmaster
It's not that Mycroft is every nation and their mum's actual government, secret service, and a couple of other institutions, if you look at it. Sherlock is always over dramatic. Just looking after his own (family and country) is a taxing enough job. One he's not capable of accomplishing to his own satisfaction, at least not entirely. Some things you see on the news would never have happened otherwise.
Still, he does try to do his part. Because, unlike too many of the current politicians (perhaps all politicians, but Mycroft is still entitled to have a few idols), he is capable of considering far-reaching consequences, rather than immediate poll results.
It's like chess, really. If you just jump at any opportunity you see in front of you, without considering the whole board, you're going to lose. At least if you are facing a half-competent player.
Maybe Mycroft isn't five moves ahead of everyone else at all times, like he'd wish. But at least he sees the chessboard. All of it.
The comparison is pretty sound, for one simple reason. Of the supposed main actors, not all will behave the same way, but you can still foresee what they will do, if you have enough info about them. Some will just rush straight to their goal. Some will take the most oblique approach. And some...well, they're probably hungover, and hence will end taking a very weird path to realize their bright ideas. They may or might not be literal knights.
Mycroft's role is simply to know. Know data about the international situation, know people, know what this or that will result in. And nudge the right person. He's not a puppeteer, not completely. He'll just – tell Anthea to share a link with someone, show an article to a fellow Diogenes member, off-handedly mention something to a third person.
If all works out, the nation will not notice. They never do, not when things are smooth. If he fails (and he occasionally does; people are not pieces, and the some moods are simply unforeseeable)... well. He won't be blamed (except by Sherlock), because he carefully holds a low profile. But it doesn't mean that he's not going to feel guilty about whatever mess he couldn't steer Britain out of.
Sometimes he thinks that it would be so much better, if the country could be an actual chessboard. Or at least, if people remained where you put them until it was their turn. But no, everyone develops a point of view - especially on what they don't understand, for some maddening reason - and then take initiatives. Without consulting him or anyone else. If people don't use their brain, why are they allowed one?
