There are nights where Sherlock does not sleep.
There are times when the nightmares grow unbearable, and he is 
to sleep.
Because every time, 
he closes his eyes there is pain and blood and darkness and screams and chains and-
It's him that is screaming.
It's him that is bleeding.
It's him that is chained.
And the scars on his back ache and his wrists flare up in agony every time he puts them under too much strain, but the bottle of heavy painkillers – oxycodone – remain on his bedside table, full. He will not take them because he knows he deserves this pain, and he doesn't deserve relief from it. How much pain had he put John through when he threw himself off the roof of a building? A lot, he knew, and there wouldn't have been any anti-depressants strong enough to erase that. But he didn't know the full extent – he would never know how deep John's grief had gone, because 
The sociopath who didn't have a heart, the cold-hearted detective who cared for no-one.
And he hates it.
He hates himself for that.
For 
in the first place
but alsofor underestimating how badly his death would affect John.
Sherlock Holmes was a bad person; he had accepted that. And he would never be a 
one. He had come to embrace this cold sociopathic persona, but it was all an act, all on the surface, because deep, deep inside - he hated himself.
He despises the fact that there was this cold black ball of malice inside him, and he is capable of 
if he convinced himself of it. Manipulation for The Work, manipulating people and victims and criminals alike just because 
and it helped his work (
you did this, 
He felt no remorse when he did it either.
Just this cold, blank, empty feeling as if he was looking at his own soul shattered on the ground in front of him, analysing it as one would a broken pot.
It terrifies him.
He deserves this pain – he thinks – and so, the bottle of tablets remains full, unopened. He would 
not be going anywhere 
the oxycodone. Every time he glanced at the offending bottle of innocent looking medication guiltily, flashes of memories would assault him.
He shuts that memory down immediately, firmly under lock and key in his Mind Palace. No need for that one anymore, he had far worse memories lodged, festering between the cracks, that he had to deal with than this pathetic 'childhood trauma'. 
had died a long time ago, those looming shadows cast on the walls – an imposing figure that struck a heavy dread and anxiety. 
There were worse problems to deal with at hand.
Sherlock has gone 45 hours without sufficient sleep now, and food just nauseates him. He has been functioning purely on nicotine, caffeine and adrenaline, and had barely been eating before that anyway.
to fall asleep, surrendering himself to the soft black arms of oblivion gratefully – completely worn out and exhausted – only to be paid back cruelly with violent flashes of sharp images he'd rather stay buried.
The Serbian cell - cold biting into his very being, breathless with pain, whipped remorselessly with hard iron pipes, chained to two walls for days on end, his wrist screaming in agony.
As a teenager he had sustained a shattering injury on his left wrist that broke the bones and affected nerves around it – only two days after having sprained that same wrist. He had been prescribed oxycodone for it while it was still in a cast, then a splint, but overdosed on it on an impulse when he had been in the depths of misery and hopelessness, thus having to cope with the rest of his recovery in absolute pain. Of course, no one knows about this certain attempt in his teenage years, not even Mycroft – he had only known about the severe injury, and not the sprain beforehand either. His father never found out – thank God – and he had had to suffer all alone through it.
That certain wrist injury – however – permanently affected him. It was tender and fragile even after recovery, and his violin playing took a while to get back to normal – but even then, he could never strain it too much.
And so, being chained to two opposite walls for days on end was 
When Mycroft came to his 'rescue' (as the arrogant git liked to put it, when really it wasn't like that at all; he would have saved himself without Mycroft's help) and a private physician prescribed him oxycodone and a wrist brace, Sherlock politely accepted them, knowing his pompous brother would attempt to intervene if he refused. But when he got back to Baker Street, the brace and bottle of medication lay abandoned on his bedside table or draw. Of course, he wore the brace when he slept (though that was a very minimal amount of time); he wasn't 
(that was probably the wrong choice of word, for past history would prove him wrong). At first Mycroft had been reluctant to entrust him with oxycodone - given his addiction - but Sherlock had scoffed and explained that if he wanted to get high, oxycodone would be the 
thing he would turn to.
He falls into a feverish slumber eventually - at his microscope, while conducting some honest-to-God 
experiment on 
of all things just for the sake of staying awake. John had retired early up to his bedroom; he has been staying at 221B whilst Mary is gone on her 'Girls' holiday' with all her friends.
.
"Sherlock, you will get some sleep, won't you?" John had asked, concerned, before he went to bed – the little furrow between his eyes appearing that was always there when he got worried, or concerned, or angry, or stressed. Sherlock would know, because he kept it catalogued in his Mind Palace, recorded every time it appeared.
Sherlock replied with a vague noncommittal hum.
John sighed. "Please sleep at least for a while. You've been at that bloody microscope for 
"
Sherlock still did not say anything, and kept his eyes firmly concentrated on the microscope lens.
His flatmate tried again. "Alright, Sherlock, have it your way. Don't sleep."
Now 
was a surprise. Sherlock lifted his head to look at John, though still didn't make eye contact.
"But when Lestrade rings with a lovely triple homicide and you're too dead to even stand up, whose fault will it be then?"
Ugh. He should have seen that one coming. Well, maybe John did have a point. But that still didn't change the fact that he 
He 
When John still stood determinedly waiting for a reply, Sherlock gave in just to please John and make him stop persisting.
"Alright, John, I'll sleep." 
"Happy now?"
John certainly didn't look happy.
In fact, his face was an odd mismatch between a few different emotions and Sherlock couldn't identify what they were. He remembered being a child, and his mother patiently teaching him all the different emotions on yellow sticky-notes with faces drawn on.
"
actually looked like that 
John's face had been an odd mixture of quite a few expressions. Concern, sadness, anger…maybe? But why would John be concerned? About him? He had already expressed how much he hated Sherlock at the restaurant when he had punched him.
"When was the last time you slept?" John's voice was softer.
"40 hours ago," came his immediate reply. His friend looked disappointed.
"Sherlock, I don't think you realise how bad extreme sleep deprivation is for you. I'm a doctor. Getting to 36 hours without sleep is a feat for most people, let alone 40."
"Yes, John, I know exactly what happens. When the human body is sustained without sleep for 36 hours, you begin to have an intense overwhelming urge to sleep, and brief microsleeps which usually last only around thirty seconds. It severely impairs cognitive performance causing symptoms such as extreme fatigue, increased inflammation and impaired immune function and memory. Getting to 48 hours is when it starts to really get bad." Sherlock could tell John resisted the urge to question his definition of 'bad'. He carried on. "
is extreme sleep deprivation, and you are more likely to experience microsleeps, and even hallucinations at this point. Other effects include depersonalization, anxiety, high stress levels, increased irritability and extreme fatigue.
"It really is fascinating, John. I once wrote an essay on the stages of sleep deprivation for my blog, which I'm sure many people found just as fascinating as I do.
"Now, when you reach 
, that's when it gets interesting. Reality becomes severely distorted in sleep deprivation psychosis –"
"Alright Sherlock, I didn't ask you to spout a bloody textbook!" John exclaimed.
Sherlock was more than a little hurt, because didn't John find it as fascinating as he did? Some of that must have shown on his face so John softened a little and said, "Ok, I'm sorry, but you get the point. 
And with that he turned around and walked up the stairs to his bedroom.
.
However adamant Sherlock is to stay awake, his body eventually betrays him. He falls asleep at the microscope after 46 hours of not having a full night's rest. At first it feels comforting, to be greeted by the warm soft arms of oblivion after being deprived of it for so long, because he is just 
It is a bone-deep exhaustion that drains everything out of him, and the only thing that had kept him going up until now was caffeine, nicotine and adrenaline. It feels so good to just let himself 
finally, be cradled in the arms of sleep and sink into oblivion.
But it doesn't last. It never lasts. Because of course, just as he drifts off, the smallest sliver of anxiety manages to creep way through the cracks of the all-encompassing slumber of exhaustion. It weaves through all the barriers he has constructed, because they fall and crumble when he is asleep, and it whispers to him persistently until it gets louder and louder and louder and it sounds like shouting or even 
and suddenly it's 
Sherlock jolts upright with a gasp as if he has just resurfaced from water – it's almost like he has, because he's just resurfaced from drowning in the depths of his own mind. He is panting, and his chest 
but he can still hear the echoes of brutal strikes and blows and chains jangling.
This is why he does not sleep.
Once he gets his breathing back to normal and not that awful ragged harsh wheezing, he stands up wearily and gets his wrist brace from his bedroom because he is suddenly aware that his wrist is throbbing, pain shooting up the inside of his arm.
Collapsing on the sofa in the living room, he just closes his eyes. He is 
but cannot let himself sleep.
Maybe he should make himself some tea, or coffee…or something…something that has caffeine in it. God, everything feels so fuzzy and blurry. He can't think straight – how can he focus? He needs to…to…do something. He doesn't remember what it is. Why can't he remember? Suddenly he feels very angry at himself. What's wrong with him? Why is he being like this? Ever since he came back, Sherlock can't remember ordinary things like what day it is or when the last time he ate was – everything is merging, the days blurring together to form some kind of –
He has to finish his experiment on pollen, he thinks to himself somewhat triumphantly. 
what he needed to do.
He drags himself off the sofa and staggers upright, but a wave of dizziness suddenly overcomes him, unbearably powerful. 
Sherlock falls ungracefully back onto the sofa, landing with a thump. He giggles to himself. This reminds him of that time someone got him drunk. Mycroft? John? Maybe it was Lestrade. It doesn't matter. Though there was something to do with 
he doesn't remember what. Was it John? It might have been John. Then again…
God, he sounds delirious to even himself.
He 
be getting back to the experiment. But he's just really tired…maybe he could just rest for a bit on the sofa.
He scrambles upright again. 
He needs to tend to his pollen samples or else the experiment won't work! But his limbs have seemed to decide to turn to lead. Sherlock can't even lift them, let alone move them to stand up.
Maybe it's alright if he just stays here then, just for a while, until he can muster the energy to get up again…later. After he's rested. Yes. That seems like a good idea.
He can just…rest - only for a moment, no longer. No longer. He'll just…stay here for a while, doesn't that sound nice? Sherlock becomes aware of the fact it is really very warm and cosy on this sofa, wrapped up in his new favourite wool camel dressing gown. Very warm…very comfortable. He sinks into the soft cushions, down, and he is 
.
His eyelids seem to flutter gently closed of their own accord and he falls back into the soft black respite of oblivion, slowly and gradually.
Sherlock - who has vowed not to sleep tonight and get back to tending to his pollen samples - eventually falls into a deep, steady sleep as his breathing slows and body goes entirely lax, free from any tautness or tension.
He has no nightmares for the rest of the night.
.
John wakes up the next morning unusually early for some reason, and stumbles downstairs to make himself some tea because no matter how hard he tries, he can't fall back asleep.
He stops short when he reaches the living room because of the sight that greets him when he enters. It's nothing catastrophic, but it is unexpected.
Sherlock is curled up like a cat on the sofa, asleep. He is wrapped up tightly into a ball in his new favourite wool dressing gown, breathing slowly and steadily – the experiment with pollen from the night before abandoned on the table in the kitchen; microscope, notebook, pen and all left neatly in place.
Looking closer, John truly notices how exhausted his friend looks. Sherlock has shadows under his eyes like bruises, and his hair – normally tamed into glossy dark curls – is wild and haphazardly messy, ruffled and falling over his forehead and eyes as if he had run his hand through it repeatedly, or pulled at it roughly multiple times. His skin is paler than usual – Sherlock has always been very fair-skinned, but this was unusually pale.
It worries John, to see him like this. He doesn't understand why Sherlock is so adamant not to sleep, and it's not just that. He has noticed a change in his friend's behaviour recently, ever since he came back. Sherlock is different, in better and worse ways. For one, he is gentler and more patient, quieter and less aggressive in his excitement.
Less like a flaming, burning star hurtling so fast it is tumbling to its own destruction, but more like a steady flame lighting up everything around it.
But then Sherlock did always call John his 
"
"
"
He seems more stable and less likely to explode all the time, less fidgety and impulsive, like 'a rocket on a launchpad tearing itself to pieces'. It pleases John, because now he doesn't have to put up with Sherlock forever acting like a child having a tantrum, doesn't have to deal with the constant thrumming energy, pacing and frantic violin playing at 2 am.
But it also somewhat scares him, because he cannot think of what could have happened whilst Sherlock was Away to make him like this – because even though he has become gentler and softer, simultaneously he is colder and hardened, not innocent or oblivious, not a ridiculous man-child anymore.
He doesn't know what happened during those two years to make Sherlock sustain himself without sleep for two days straight when there isn't a case on.
When John told Sherlock to sleep before he went to bed, this wasn't what he'd imagined – him kipping on the sofa on his own little nest of pillows like a cat. But Sherlock is sleeping, which is the main thing – and that satisfies him. He thinks of waking him up, but immediately dismisses the thought. Let him sleep. John turns around, picks up a big soft fleece blanket from his armchair behind him – it is cold these winter months – and covers his friend with it. He smiles to himself softly, and then goes to the kitchen to make himself some tea for breakfast.
As he is drinking his tea and reading the newspaper, his phone next to him buzzes loudly, twice – a text. From the other room, Sherlock shoots up suddenly, awake in a snap. John is surprised – Sherlock has always been a light sleeper, but never startled this badly by a small noise. Any thought of convincing Sherlock to go back to sleep disappears when his friend comes marching into the kitchen, looking irritable and ruffled.
"Lestrade. A case," he announces in his regular Sherlockian tone of voice. It is not as arrogant-sounding or confident as it normally is – the texts must have really alarmed him, John observes with surprise – but John does not say anything about it, instead deciding to ask,
"How do you know?"
Sherlock does not answer his question properly, but instead regards him with a condescending typical '
 look.
"John, I am not even going to attempt to answer a question that ridiculous." He then mutters something under his breath disdainfully that sounds something like '
John himself checks his phone next to him to see if it was Lestrade, and – unsurprisingly – Sherlock is right. There are two texts:
 
- GL
Damn it. Lestrade must have texted Sherlock first while he was still asleep on the sofa, with his phone in his bedroom.
"Yep, it's a case. He wants you to come. I don't have work today, so I'll come as well if you want." Sherlock looks surprised at that.
"Why don't you have work today?"
John stops for a second at that. "It's…Sunday. I don't work on Sundays. I thought you knew that."
Sherlock seems even more surprised at that. "It's Sunday? Already? Last time I checked, it was Wednesday," he says. He was completely serious.
John has to stifle a laugh. He has forgotten how Sherlock loses track of the days when he is busy or doing an experiment, or on a case.
"Well, the last time you checked was four days ago then," he replies. "Time does move on while you do your experiments still, you know. We've already had this discussion."
He is referring to the discussion they'd had before – years ago now – when John had asked him to not go out on any cases on a certain day, a week in advance, and even reminded him a few days before, for something very important.
He'd prefer not to think of all the details right now, but the catastrophic end result was John coming home to an empty flat – Sherlock had gone out gallivanting on a case just like John had told him not to – and half of the kitchen on fire. It hadn't been a good day. When Sherlock got back the next day (he'd spent the night awake at Lestrade's while trying to solve the case), rumpled and tired but buzzing and eyes shining with excitement and happiness, John was waiting. He'd confronted Sherlock furiously, ranting about how for all his genius he couldn't even remember something so simple as just 
on one certain day, and it really wasn't that hard.
that John trusted him to be responsible.
Sherlock's face had remained blank throughout the entire thing, utterly and genuinely confused – no acts. John could tell.
"But you said to stay home on…
was all Sherlock had said, baffled. "It's Tuesday today."
John had just stared at him. "No, Sherlock, it is Thursday 
This'd better not be one of your bloody tricks. You know full well what day it is."
In fact, he hadn't.
John had had to explain carefully that no, he had not been there yesterday when Sherlock had been having a conversation with him. He was somewhat concerned for Sherlock's mental health that he had imagined John being there vividly enough to believe he was there and have a conversation with him, but he decided not to think about that and made Sherlock a calendar for the days of the week every month to cross of at the end of each day.
These were just the things that came along with having to live with a man-child genius (who did not hesitate to remind everyone at any given time that he was smarter than all of them).
Back to the present, all Sherlock says is, "Oh." His eyes gain that slightly far-off, unfocused look that always appears when he is confused about some mystery of social interaction, deciding what the best thing would be to say. John gives him a minute, and he can almost 
the cogs turning in his head, calculating the days and trying to figure out how on 
it could 
be Sunday already in his world.
Finally, he snaps back to the present, his face brightening. "Five minutes, John. Then we'll leave."
As his friend rushes off to his room to change and get ready in double-time, John smiles to himself. 
.
When Sherlock and John return back to the flat, it is already half an hour past midnight. The case had been intriguing, but there had been too much … 
involved.
There had been a surviving victim who was severely traumatised but needed to be interviewed by Sherlock himself because no one else would do it 
No one else would be able to ask the right questions, get the answers. But she kept sniffling and crying and breaking down – so 
and irritating. Honestly. ("
Sherlock had wanted to hiss. Instead, he kept it to eyerolls and sighs.) Sherlock couldn't ignore it either – it was simply ridiculous. So, in fact, that had partially ruined the day.
Now, he really needs some nicotine. The 
that is a nicotine patch is hidden under his shirt sleeve, but it's barely doing anything. He needs a cigarette. 
 He can't. his flatmate would surely smell the smoke on him.
He feels like he is buzzing inside, not in a good way – not the way he usually feels like after a case, buzzing with excitement and delight – but in a different way. It feels 
. Like his brain is vibrating and his breath is coming in shallow bursts, but so quietly John barely notices.
John goes to bed to sleep but Sherlock sits on the living room sofa rigidly upright, swaying slightly, still completely dressed. He feels like he is in a dream, a trance. Everything feels hazy. It is odd.
.
Unconsciously, he has retreated to the back of his Mind Palace.
The place where everything fractures into shards of smouldering dreams and memories, where nothing is organised or categorised because this is the 
 – the place he never ventures. The place where he stuffs anything unpleasant to the back of his mind and 
it there, locked up.
Sherlock is there now, his mind feeling like a swirling maelstrom, howling and numb and screaming. Like fire and ash and ice all at the same time. It is all-encompassing, this hollow whirlwind.
Without realising, he has stood up from the sofa and begun to walk unsteadily. He is not ambling aimlessly – no. He is walking towards something specific. Toward the bookshelves that slant slightly, underneath, in a case he knows 
will be in, because it is always there, polished and still. Something precious that he has not dared to touch since he came back to 221b.
Something beautiful and left untouched for what has seemed like decades, whispering untold secrets hidden in its dark, smooth wood case now frosted over with a fine layer of dust. 
he had once said. He still thought so. Something so mutely expressive (he didn't even know if that made sense – except that was the way he had always thought of it) and perfect in every curve and soft angle. Taut strings and a lovely bow to finish it.
His violin.
When he was eleven, she had been gifted to him by his mother.** A perfect violin – light, resonant, flexible and strong to withstand the strains of vibrations on the strings – made of willow and ebony. It had formerly been his mother's, but once she gave it to him and he played with it, touched it, held it, his first thought had been '
Mycroft would have scoffed at the 
of naming an object, but it had been at a time where their mother was dying of an illness – and every moment spent with her was precious.
Sherlock picks up the violin case along with a bag full of supplies he had brought from the music shop as soon as he had returned – after two years of disuse, Anneliese needs to be cleaned, tuned. He takes her out of her case and begins. He replaces the bow's hair with a new bundle had brought, cleans her, tunes her. It takes an hour and twenty-three minutes, but he enjoys it. It is almost like a healing process for him – he cannot fix himself and the ruined sections of his Mind Palace, but he can fix Anneliese and make her clean and new and ready for playing again.
He has lost his callouses – and that makes him upset. He needs to build them back up again to be able to play the way he used to.
Usually, he would use a mute, since it was almost two in the morning, and he wouldn't want to wake up John or Mrs Hudson. But today he doesn't care. Sherlock rubs the rosin on the bow and replaces it back in its red cloth when he's done, and stands up, facing the window – violin tucked lovingly under his chin, bow suspended hesitantly in the air.
Slowly, he drags the bow across the violin – a long, mournful, wavering note that feels like a deep, painful inhale. It 
, he realises, because of his wrist. He begins to play, and the pain leaves him breathless slightly. But he 
He is rising, rising, rising … does he dare to go quicker? He should – he feels like a caged bird, restless and thrashing and longing to escape, to breathe.
He speeds up.
His bow quickens, cautiously at first, then freely, realising there is nothing to fear –
white hot agony blazing from his wrist up his arm bursts, shooting, hits him and he stops immediately. The pain is so intense his hand feels numb, and the violin slips from his grasp from the shock, dropping to the floor loudly. Sherlock winces, wondering if at any moment now John will wake up and rush downstairs to see what the noise was, to see if Sherlock's alright. He waits. Nothing. John isn't coming down.
He breathes a sigh of relief – or, he would have, if the blinding pain in his wrist didn't overcome him again. He gasps and falls to the floor (only to pick up his violin of course, not in 
way because it hurts so much), unsteady. The world is swimming, and there is fire in his veins. There are tears in his eyes – 
why the world is swimming. He is panting, gasping raggedly, shakily, knuckles brushing the floor, and reaches up and grips the edge of the table with his good arm for balance. Sherlock stays in that position for a few seconds, breathing heavily, in pain, trying to regain control of himself.
Slowly, with his violin, he pulls himself up, teeth gritted.
He won't be able to play, he knows, not with his stupid wrist acting up. He is going to need some help. 
intervention, maybe. Not cocaine – John wouldn't like that. 
He shakes all thoughts of 
from his head. No.
The medication. Oxycodone. He doesn't want to, not in any universe, but he has no choice. He will not be able to play without it. His fingers are it itching, his soul is singing; he 
his violin. He needs the comfort of Anneliese to get all this putrid black 
and mess inside of him. When he is done, he will feel cleansed again, calm. There is too much overwhelming at the moment, too much sound and emotion and colour during the day and too many nightmares when the sun sets. 
He has no choice.
Sherlock gets the offending bottle of pills from his room and downs one dry, hands shaking. It should take action in about 45 minutes – these were the fast-acting ones that he had requested because even Mycroft knew Sherlock wasn't going to take regular medication. At least he was taking something.
Meanwhile, he sits in the kitchen and ices his wrist for about ten minutes. It numbs his hand and it feels much better, with tendrils of pain no longer spiralling like hot wires down his wrist. It is now merely throbbing, and that he can deal with.
When Sherlock is done icing it, he does not want to risk playing so soon – he is afraid of that terrifying pain that brings back only too many memories of the 
He cannot.
So, instead, he chooses to distract himself with something that is associated with pleasant memories – and goes to find his book about bees. He'd already memorised the entire thing, of course; he'd had a period of hyper fixation upon bees when he was younger that was reawakened when John brought him this book for Christmas after listening to him ramble on about them because he was bored.
There is nothing else to say – he likes this book because of its 
association. John gifting him something he loved, back when everything was simple. Before the 'Fall' (as Moriarty so dramatically put it). Now the past – 
 past – is gone. It is splintered, tainted, and all Sherlock can do is longingly look into the shards of what it had been – shards of a past that is irreparable.
Holding the book in his hands again is comforting; makes him feel safe. He flips through the well-worn pages absently, only catching flickers of the words.
It is now nearly three o' clock in the morning, and Sherlock slowly rises from his seat – bee book forgotten – and picks up the violin.
He brings it to rest underneath his chin, ignoring the dull protestations of pain that twang in his wrist. Starts with some chords – easy, but just to get back into the flow. It feels like he is holding his breath, waiting for the explosion that came last time, that knocked the violin to the floor.
Sherlock stops abruptly, because he can hear how bad it is, and it is shameful that he can't even play a few chords without his wrist hurting. It makes him disgusted. He starts again, patient, but a few minutes later he has to break off again, angry. Beginning again, he plays more aggressively, only causing himself to tire quicker and having to stop earlier.
This is ridiculous.
Furious, he begins to 
at the violin viciously with the bow loudly, and it is like a sort of cynical satisfaction, tearing at the strings and his mind. It is screeching, screaming, and it sounds like tearing metal sheets, or how angels would scream if they ripped the sky open with lightning. He no longer cares if he wakes up John or not. 
him come down, see what Sherlock has turned into 
Let him see how much Sherlock has suffered just for 
All because of 
It will serve him right –
That thought right then shocks him, takes his breath away, makes him suddenly stop screaming with the violin. Stops him in his tracks. 
did he contemplate that he would think something like that. He must be composed, calm, cannot let his emotions get the better of him.
He takes a deep breath. Starts again. Slowly.
It begins with hope – high, wavering notes that tremble slightly, and gradually, it swells, grows, speeds up. Light at first, all golden and purple and softness. He likes 
He plays more, tentatively, stopping again when his wrist hurts. Then Sherlock goes to get some manuscript stave paper and a pencil and begins to scrawl down the beginnings of a dawn. He contemplates, tries the notes together on the violin – and at first, they sound like clutter and chaos, but that's only because he is not in practice. Moving around a few here and there, he finds something that works. And, as he begins to play it, it reminds him of a long-forgotten piece in the nooks of his Mind Palace, buried underneath rubble and dust, something mournful and nostalgic from long ago.
He incorporates that into what he is already playing, weaving the notes in skilfully around each other, until they flow, vibrantly and rapidly like water, fluent and bright. It is beautiful, and he feel that he is finally getting a grip on his music, on the notes that felt like they were trying to fly away before. He is buried in a flurry of colour and music and strings, lovingly stroking his bow across, swaying with its melody and rhythm. Sherlock is painting pictures into the air with a bow as his paintbrush and the rest of the world around him as his canvas.
Now, he becomes swept up in the sound and waves of thoughts that are crashing upon him.
But the music is taking a different turn. He is going deeper, within the swathes that protect his mind, burrowing past them, into the darker parts. His bow flies across the violin, regardless of his aching wrist, because this is good, it is all spilling out, all of it. The darkness begins to stream out, the blackness. It is being released and even though it hurts his soul he keeps going. His fingers are burning; he has lost his callouses over the two years and it's affecting his playing – he has to keep stopping, and the music is a little stiffer than it would have been.
This is achingly raw. He is standing, eyes closed, in front of the window, pouring his soul out to no-one but himself and the books, the violin his means of communication – it is such emotion that he cannot speak aloud with words, such emotion it is beyond expressing through speech.
Sherlock has to break off at times in the middle of a crescendo because of the strain on his wrist, which is frustrating, but he vows not to get stuck again in the spirals of angry chords and self-pity. Instead, he stops, takes a few moments, massaging his wrist, then carries on, building back up to the crescendo.
Colours swirl round as he climbs higher and higher, speaking with his violin – saying everything he never could before. It is exhausting, but it feels comforting holding Anneliese again after so long, and he feels almost giddy with it, swept up in it all.
There are times he has to go slower, quieter, to ease the strain on his wrist, times where he has to go rapidly and rapidly, vibrating almost, notes so fleeting they're barely present or audible. Quivering in anticipation. But it all blends into one fluid stream of consciousness, matching the hazy first tendrils of grey dawn beginning to illuminate the sky, after the heavy drapery of a purple twilight that just passed.
The room is being flooded with a strange, silvery light, and after the intense blackness and artificial lights of the night, this is pleasing. Sherlock begins to slow down, settling into a steady, lulling, melancholy tune that repeats itself over and over. The outside world is beginning to be blanketed in the blue-grey mesh of the hints of morning. He softly plays, bittersweet and pleasant to listen to, in comparison to the raucous, intensive melodies of the deep night that he played.
Then comes the vibrant, explosive sunrise.
And Sherlock is struck with its beauty.
He stops for a minute, opens his eyes, and 
Then he lifts his weary, aching arms up again, and finishes playing his violin. It is the most colourful piece so far, full of violets and pinks and golden and cerulean that matches the sky. Full of shards of glass, beautiful and sharp, spinning in the light. Blue mountains that rise above the horizon, fluttering, hovering notes and frost.
He plays until he can play no more, until the sky is lit up with all the colours of a sunrise, illuminated, blazing gold and blue right to the edges of the world, it seems.
He plays until he can play no more, until his fingers are bleeding and his wrist is throbbing, but the pain and blood is deserved and just as beautiful as the sky outside the window. He is playing with his eyes open now, finally.
He plays until he can play no more, until his soul it seems is empty of everything it has to say, emptied of the putrid darkness.
He plays until he can play no more, until the dawn is at its peak and he is whipped up by a flurry of colour, until the room is lit up by amber light flooding in.
He plays until he can play no more, until he has nothing left to say and finally –
his violin falls silent, last notes echoing in the air.
