When Sherlock first kills a man, it is in self-defense in Mumbai, India, and it's messy and chaotic. He is fighting and flailing and he's not even thinking, not really. It's just a primal part that boldly says, 
 and the man is cruel and aggressive.
They roll about on the floor and he takes a few hits, and when he gets the chance, he doesn't really have the time to think about it. He knows if he lets the opportunity go, the man will kill him. He has a good back-up team and the government itself had extended it's resources, eager to let their country be rid of the perverse filth of James Allen Moriarty.
But they aren't here right now, because he was never supposed to have caught up to Sherlock and there is just no choice for Sherlock now.
They get him up and get him medical attention, clean up the mess and the PR gleefully announce the death of one and capture of five terror operatives working in the metro city.
It's a happy ending, all in all. So Sherlock forgives himself for not feeling anything on his first kill. He isn't 
that he killed a man, no, but he doesn't much care about it.
Sherlock just counts it a blessing and moves on.
In the following week, he thinks a lot about it but really feels no remorse about it, which is fair, Sherlock uncertainly decides. He was a terrible, terrible man who had killed many and would have killed many more had he not been stopped.
In Denmark, Sherlock Holmes doubles as Felix Brown, a smart young student from England, here to travel a bit for his gap year before he starts college next fall.
Sherlock is remarkably lucky he has such a youthful face. It's a pain on official crime scenes and missions when people tend to not take him all that seriously (he takes care of it of course, they are never quite the same after they meets him) but it does make it easy enough to act a little younger than he actually is.
A bit of shy sweet Felix with his soft yellow hair and sweet blue eyes and Liam falls head over heels for a boy 10 years his junior.
Liam Andrew wasn't just a petty two-bit criminal. Liam was a rich businessman who delved into illegal immorality with great gusto. He enjoyed the thrill of being clever, stealing more than he deserved, he enjoyed deviant sexual practises, often choosing to persuade unwilling customers to bed and enjoying their reluctant participation because they had been backed into a corner.
Moriarty had seen the artist in the businessman and the criminal psyche behind his placid smile and shot him right up his ranks. Liam was clever enough but not so that he wanted an audience to brag to which Sherlock conceded was its own kind of clever.
He watched from afar and kept his hands clean and was clever enough to not leave back obvious enough hints connecting him to the crimes and no way to fully know about the girls and drugs that were coming in unless they were really in.
Previous attempts at infiltration and recon had failed; Liam was too good and he never let anyone too close.
Sherlock could see what was missing though. They told him that it would never really work, but when Felix clumsily asked for directions to the nearest cheapest motel, Liam offered to drive him as it was quite a way off.
Sherlock's newest disguise, Felix was morally good and hopelessly idealistic, the personification of a good man, and Liam smiled indulgently at the young boy's ramblings. Parking right in front of a decently luxurious motel that Sherlock knew he owned and would be charged barely anything for, Felix offered to be his tour guide.
Felix told him that it was very kind of him, and after a few more inane pleasantries agreed to meet up the day later. And then the one after that. And the one after that.
Liam was the perfect gentleman, young and polite and pleasant and when Felix told him he was a good man, he could see the relieved love-struck smile on his features.
Victor had helped him with it before hand. They had had sex, all manners of sex in all types of positions multiple times.
So he went to Liam's bed, and because Liam loved him so much and wanted to be a proper gentleman, he invited him to his own house willingly, and Felix gasped and writhed, and later confirmed to his team that the files were there.
When the Interpol knocked down the door, they pretended he was still a civilian, choosing to not blow his cover, and that foolish man was so desperate, he said he'd give up his entire work if they promised to let the love of his life go without repercussions and with a hefty amount of money to set his life comfortably.
Felix just sat blankly, half naked with sheets barely covering him as Liam gave him a fond regretful smile and a peck on the lips as he walked by. Liam had tears in his eyes but determination in his step and was for perhaps the first time in his life really thinking about anything other than his own twisted needs.
It's a breakthrough nevertheless, and somehow tragic in a, 
 sort of way.
But for Sherlock, really none of it matters. As soon as Liam was gone, he snaps out of his persona and asks for his clothes, and a flight to Russia.
He ruffles his hair in a semblance of order, and tries to smooth down the creases in his shirt.
He looks sex-addled and is exhausted and limping after everything, but there's just no time. He knows exactly what Shaw Warren is planning next.
Victor falls easily in step with Sherlock, waving away the half-hearted protests of a few saying they are too exhausted and this is too tiring.
, Sherlock snorts. The mind boggles.
Still, he says nothing and lets Victor deal with it.
Ultimately, they decided to equip with new equipment and new people on the ground. It was just too much effort to be pulling around the weight of those who were too knackered to give their best.
It's been one year in, and Sherlock has not heard anybody say his name in just as long.
He thinks about John and then does his best not to think about John because he does not want even his memory to be tarnished in such filthy places. John (and London) is safety and comfort and everything good and Sherlock doesn't think he can afford to even entertain the illusion of safety.
Moriarty's web is mindbogglingly huge and as much as Sherlock wishes otherwise, he cannot do it alone.
There are places to go and arrests to be made and sometimes more often than not there need to be lots of people in lots of different places at the same time for it to really work as well.
Working with others is tougher than working on your own, mostly because no one is an ideal employee and they all have their ideas and ambitions even if they are much too clever to voice them.
So, this is what they do: Mycroft is home base, he coordinates and arranges so there are always people on ground and equipment at hand or at least as much as that particular country has and is willing to cooperate with.
Victor handles the people because Sherlock doing that is just a dumb idea. He coordinates on the ground.
But Sherlock is the one who has the final say in what goes on. Always and irrevocably. What he says goes. Period.
Sherlock has started counting the days since he left London. It didn't matter much before because back then it was always so close. He was forever hinging on the sort of thinking that deluded him that home was just a flight away and he was almost just done, and he'd be home to warm tea and Mrs. Hudson and nice cases that don't make him feel so blank and empty inside.
And John who wears dull boring jumpers but looks at him and sees something extraordinary when others see a freak
It's on this another exhausting and blank day that one of the two men Victor had trusted enough to protect him slammed a knife into the other man, giving Sherlock just enough time to twist away from the dangerous edge of a knife edge.
Disarming him is easy; more muscle memory than clear thinking and incapacitating him and tying him up takes perhaps another few seconds.
He activates the distress signal because there is undoubtedly someone else coming, backup from the superiors of the man lying unconscious on the floor, the ones willing to offer enough money to turn even loyalty blind. Or was he blackmailed into it?
It hardly matters for now. Sherlock keeps up with the underworld and they have a bounty out for him which says Alive and not Dead. It has nothing to do with the kindness of their dead black hearts.
They are angry at him for having destroyed so much and are wanting to pay back some of that hospitality.
Of course, capturing someone alive is much harder than killing them (Snipers, poisons, suicide bombers, etcetera etcetera). And would probably take much longer.
They were however patient and even willing to let him destroy more of Moriarty's legacy if it would ensure his death was slow and cold and painful.
Victor looks at the handcuffed man near the entrance and the dead man on the floor, and calmly takes out his gun and shoots him dead in the eyes.
Worse than the betrayal is the cold blankness in his best friend's eyes, as he slowly becomes the monster he had sought out to destroy. After all, if you gaze long into the abyss, the abyss also gazes back into you.
Victor has been in the business long enough to have contacts.
He has even been long enough in the business to have shady contacts who think he is also a shady contact and laugh long and hard about the sort of atrocities that they commit on stupid innocent citizens.
Which makes him a good candidate for undercover missions. It's not even that complicated. They are not ready to bring down the group yet.
They are well-established enough to have multiple contacts but undercover agents and dedicated teams have already infiltrated the group so much so that breaking it down would be relatively easy.
Sherlock is working furiously on his laptop when Victor comes in with an almost satisfied gleam in his eyes.
There is almost a darkness between his half-smile and carelessly messy hair.
"We did it," he whispered lightly. "Well," he is quick to amend. "Mostly."
"Mostly?" Sherlock echoes hollowly. "I thought this was the last main link?" There was no use going after the side links. The connections were too vast, too far spread and most of them did not even realize what they were a part of.
Victor threw down a stack of files. As Sherlock picked it up, he mussed up his air. "Get ready. We need to be in air by 5. Serbia is our last point of contact. I'll be down into the ranks, you need to sneak in while I play distract."
Sherlock sighed and got up. He felt tired, his barely healing wounds straining from the pressure, his body exhausted from almost 2 years of non-stop abuse. 
