They're at Lestrade's. For a New Year's Eve party. And the place is full of people Sherlock doesn't know and doesn't care about. He only came for John, because John wanted to come. And of course, Sherlock is so ridiculously, one-sidedly in love with him that he couldn't possibly refuse. So here he is, standing stiffly beside John as the latter makes light conversation with someone Sherlock vaguely recognises but can't bother to remember where from (probably NSY, he knows, but 
No, whatever – it doesn't actually matter. He's insignificant).
John touches Sherlock's arm quite suddenly but very gently, startling him so much that he jolts and the movement causes his champagne to slosh around the flute and spill over his fingers.
"You all right?" John asks softly, his voice almost too quiet to hear over the music. Sherlock just looks at him, not sure how to respond. The truth? A lie? 
just deflect.
"He was…" Sherlock begins, looking for a word John would improve of, but struggles quite a bit 
until he mumbles, "…nice." He clears his throat, too aware of how dull that response was, so he adds, "From, er… forensics?"
John smiles warmly. "I'm surprised you remembered," he says, moving them towards one of the walls, away from the middle of the room. "But I reckon you don't recall his name, then, considering you can't even remember the name of whose party we're at."
Sherlock rolls his eyes. "It's Lestrade," he replies, but knows what John means, and even if he didn't, he would 
with the look John's giving him. "All right. It starts with a G, followed by… an R?"
"Yep," John tells him, sipping from his flute. "Want to take a guess at a name?"
Sherlock thinks it over, trying to remember every single name he's ever heard starting with "GR". "Grant," he murmurs eventually, but John shakes his head. "Graham." Another shake. "Griffin."
"Nope," John responds, smiling fondly. "Try one last time."
"Gr… Greyson," Sherlock finally tries, but John shakes his head once again.
"Greg," he tells him gently, touching his shoulder. "You were so close though." Upon seeing Sherlock's expression, he adds, "It's okay that you forget it. I know that's just how you are – I'm only teasing, okay?"
Sherlock nods, still feeling a bit embarrassed, but knows that John isn't making fun of him and he doesn't have to feel the way he does. He drinks the rest of the champagne in his flute, hoping his face doesn't look red, and lets his eyes glance over everyone in the room.
"So, any resolutions for the new year?" John asks after some time has passed. Sherlock looks over at him, an eyebrow arched. John shrugs. "I mean… 
going to try to make sure I take better care of Rosie. I know I haven't been the greatest father this past year, and she deserves only the best." He pauses for a bit, and then continues, trying to lighten the mood again, "I also think I might try to lose some weight, maybe. Eat healthier. Mrs. Hudson will be disappointed if I pass on the sweets but I'm getting a bit soft in the middle here." He pats his stomach and chuckles, but Sherlock doesn't laugh or agree. Instead, he looks away, thinking.
"I think that you're perfect as is," he says quietly after a moment, swallowing. His hands are shaking, so much so that he considers putting the empty champagne flute down. He almost hopes that John hasn't heard him, that perhaps the music is too loud. He chances another glance at John to find that the latter is watching him with something akin to wonder on his face for only a second. Then, it disappears just as quickly as it came, and John clears his throat, blinking a few times and averting his gaze.
"Thanks," he murmurs, fighting back another smile. Then he says, "So what about you? Any resolutions?"
Sherlock thinks and thinks, but comes up with nothing. Most resolutions turn out to just be empty promises. Nobody does what they say they will, and if they do, they're just the exceptions. Sherlock could promise anything, but he knows that he won't stick to it.
What would he promise anyway? To be kinder, to be more patient, to be more social? (Or perhaps he could even promise to try to change the nature of his relationship with John, to see if that's something he might want instead of just assuming that he wouldn't want that, assuming that a romantic relationship between them could only be doomed to fail because of everything they've put each other through. But that's not something that he can say aloud.)
Sherlock shakes his head after a few moments. "I don't have any," he tells John, and if John is disappointed, Sherlock can't see it.
"That's all right," John says and sips his drink again, "A lot of people don't, actually. And that's fine; most people don't stick to them anyway. 
going to try my best though, at least. I have to, for Rosie."
Sherlock nods. "Of course," he replies, staring at the empty glass in his hands.
John is quiet for some time. Then, he sucks in a breath and adds, "For you, too. I'm going to try to be a better person, I mean. I know that I've said and done a 
of wrong things after Mary died. I've… I've treated you so poorly. It wasn't fair, and you didn't deserve it."
"John," Sherlock cuts in, wanting him to stop talking about it now. It's all over, and they're in public. The song changes right then, to something quieter. "We're at a party."
"No, I know, Sherlock, but listen to me. Let me say this, please." John moves them until they're in the corridor away from other people and stops in front of Sherlock, looking at his face. He sets down his glass and takes Sherlock's from his hands to set it down as well. Then, he's taking Sherlock's hands into his own. "I'm 
sorry. Sincerely. You didn't deserve anything I did or said – it wasn't your fault, what happened. And I didn't deserve to be allowed back home with you, but you let me back and I'm so, 
thankful for that. I swear to you now that I'm going to try to be better. No, not 
I 
be better. Do you understand me? I promise you, Sherlock."
Sherlock nods, his pulse fluttering. But it does feel like a heavy weight's been lifted now that John has apologised. It feels easier to breathe already.
"And I," Sherlock begins, clearing his throat, "promise that I will never kill myself again. Fake or otherwise. I'm sorry for putting you through that."
John shakes his head, but he's smiling. "You've already explained why you had to do it," John responds. "It's all right."
"But I never apologised for what you went through because of me," Sherlock says. "I'm doing that now." And John is the one that nods this time, understanding.
"Okay."
In the sitting room, someone shouts that there's less than a minute left until the new year, and the music gets turned down quite a bit. Sherlock glances at the cluster of people, all watching the telly, and then looks back at John, swallowing. Perhaps… he should try.
"Listen, John, I… I have something I wanted to talk about with you, while we're doing… this." He gestures between them with his head. "There's something that I want to say to you."
"All right," John says carefully, but doesn't let go of Sherlock's hands. Sherlock can't make himself let go either. "I'm listening."
"Thirty seconds!" comes Lestrade's voice from somewhere in the other room.
Sherlock tries to gather his thoughts enough to say what he wants to, but he's unbelievably nervous. He wants to say everything the right way, doesn't want to ruin this. John is waiting patiently, nervously – Sherlock can almost feel it coming off of him. (Why is he nervous?)
"John, I…" Sherlock tries, taking a shaky breath. In the other room, they start counting down.
"Sorry, I…" He stops and shakes his head. "Maybe we can talk about it at home. You'll miss the countdown."
"What is it?" John asks, sounding almost urgent. "Sod the countdown, just say it."
"Well, I–"
And just as everyone the sitting room begins to shout 
John reaches up and cradles Sherlock's face in his hands as he leans in and kisses him on the mouth.
Sherlock feels stunned when John pulls away. "Now what were you going to say?" the latter asks, as 
is sung in the other room.
Sherlock shakes his head, breathless. "I think you actually just took the words right out of my mouth," he says.
John grins, and Sherlock can't help himself but to grin too. And when John kisses him again, it's like nothing else in the world matters.
