The day begins like any other. Sherlock wakes up, he showers, gets dressed, puts the kettle on, and then finds something to do since he hasn't got a case. Today it's sitting at the table, finishing up what he was working on last night with the microscope. The kettle whistles after a couple of minutes, so he prepares a cup of tea and gets back to work. It's somewhat early for him to be up (though to be fair, his schedule is 
consistent whatsoever anyway), but he had trouble sleeping last night due to a nightmare, so now he's surprisingly awake before John is.
John, who enters the kitchen from the sitting room just a little while later, hair sticking up at all angles, clothes rumpled and wrinkled, and eyes half-shut as though he wishes he were still in bed (maybe he does, Sherlock doesn't know) but still somehow managing to look 
magnificent that Sherlock's breath catches in his throat at the sight of him. (Well, again, to be fair, Sherlock 
goes breathless at the sight of him.) John rubs the sleep from his eyes, touches Sherlock's shoulder on his way past the table, and goes through the motions of making himself a cup of tea as well.
"Good morning," he mumbles, very likely unaware that Sherlock is staring at his back now with parted lips, surprised by the passing touch. "You're up early. Didn't sleep well, then?"
John looks over his shoulder just as Sherlock shakes his head and glances away. "Not really," the latter admits, looking into the microscope again but not paying attention to anything he's doing or seeing. How can he, when he's still focused on the place where John's hand gently touched him?
John hums in response, perhaps forming an assumption about what kept Sherlock awake, and turns towards the table to set his cup down after taking a sip of the tea. "How about some breakfast then?" he offers gently, moving to the fridge to put away the milk and get out the eggs. He always offers breakfast if he knows Sherlock hasn't slept well or hardly slept at all, often if the reason is due to nightmares and not because he's excited about a case. Sherlock finds that he likes it – it's the only good thing about having any nightmares. "You hungry? Rosie is still asleep and I can make her something else when she wakes up, if you want to eat now."
Sherlock shrugs, but John starts getting everything out to cook anyway as though he heard an actual answer. Sherlock glances up and watches him as he cracks eggs into a bowl, adds a splash of milk for fluffiness, sprinkles some salt and pepper in, and then he whisks it all up until the eggs are ready to go into the hot, buttery pan.
Sherlock wants to offer to help, but at the same time would prefer to not be in the way, unsure what he would do to help anyway. Perhaps make toast? Pour some milk or juice for them? Though… John might not let him help. He likes to cook, Sherlock knows. He probably doesn't mind not having help. Still, Sherlock wonders if he should offer.
By the time he makes up his mind, John is already putting food on plates and it's too late. He sets their plates in front of them, and takes a seat opposite Sherlock, picking up his fork. Sherlock wants to apologise for not offering to help, but doesn't know if that's a strange thing to do or not considering he doesn't usually help anyway. He just doesn't want to make any wrong moves – things with John have just got better, after all of the talks and apologies they went through.
He moves the microscope off to the side and stares at the plate of food, wondering why he's feeling so odd today. There was the nightmare, yes, but…
"Everything all right?" John asks, and he sounds quite concerned.
Sherlock shakes his head, blinks, and then looks up and says, "Yes, sorry. Fine." And then he begins to eat, mind still elsewhere.
He's thinking too much, he knows, and for once it's a bad thing. Something just feels strange today, like he's forgotten something, or that John knows something that he doesn't, or… 
He isn't really sure. But he firmly dismisses it and focuses on the food, making sure to at least thank John for it when they've finished eating. He can do that – it's not an unusual thing for him to do anymore, and not something he has to overthink.
After breakfast, Rosie wakes up, so John heads up to his room to collect her. She's passed to Sherlock so that John can get her some food and juice, and while Sherlock doesn't particularly 
holding children, he accepts her anyway because she's John's, sitting her on his lap and nudging the microscope just out of the reach of her small hands.
It's been a little while since Christmas already, but she's dressed in the little holiday jumper Mrs. Hudson had bought for her. He smiles, thinking about it again – Mrs. Hudson was so happy to have a baby around all the time for her to get to spoil, just like a grandmother would for her grandchild. Sherlock supposes that Mrs. Hudson is the closest thing Rosie actually 
to a grandmother anyway, or even a grand 
– John doesn't even 
to his mother, and his father had died when John was 16. And who the hell knows what happened to Mary's parents, what they were like. (Sherlock is a bit glad they're not around, if Mary was anything like them.)
And of course, technically there 
Sherlock's parents, who don't have any grandchildren and won't be getting any from any of their own children, but… Sherlock isn't Rosie's parent. He's not even her stepparent. It would be… strange, would it not? Or perhaps Sherlock is thinking too much into it and it 
be acceptable for them to treat her like their granddaughter. He doesn't know, doesn't understand what is allowed.
unfair, 
Besides, as far as he 
know, Mrs. Hudson has no children or grandchildren of her own anyway, and having Rosie around is a good thing for her – they both get to be happy. Because even though Mrs. Hudson may not actually be a mother to John, she has sort of filled that role. She's earned the right to fill the grandmother role for Rosie.
(Just as Sherlock technically has as a stepparent as of late, but… he's not going to even dare to think about 
let alone what it should mean.)
Sherlock watches as John gets Rosie's food ready – slicing up a banana and pouring dry cereal into a bowl for her, filling her cup with juice. Sherlock then looks down at Rosie, who is playing with his fingers and attempting to twist around to see his face. She seems to like looking at him, though Sherlock doesn't really understand why. Add it to the list of things he still doesn't understand, right into the little section labelled 
(There's also an entire section just about John alone, but that's irrelevant right now.)
"Are you hungry, Watson?" he asks Rosie, and the food is suddenly placed in front of them on the table. When Sherlock looks up, John's smiling at the two of them, and takes a seat.
Together, they get Rosie to eat most of her food. John takes her when she's finished to change her, and after, puts her in the playpen in the sitting room with a couple of toys and her spill-proof juice cup. He then goes back upstairs to change out of the t-shirt and shorts he slept in, and comes back down in jeans and a jumper, putting the kettle on again when he enters the kitchen.
They spend most of the day not doing much, talking here and there and drinking tea until Sherlock is done with the microscope, and then Sherlock checks his email and watches something atrocious on the telly while John works on his blog, typing up the rest of their latest case. At around five, John stands and stretches, heading towards the door. Sherlock watches him curiously, but then sees John putting on his coat and frowns.
"Hey," John begins, reaching for his shoes, "do you mind watching Rosie for a bit? I'm going to head out to the shops but don't want to drag her out into the cold. I won't be long, I promise."
Sherlock hesitates, considers asking why John has to go 
but then gives in without a word about it. "All right," he replies carefully, eyes darting towards the playpen. Rosie just got up from a nap three hours ago and is back to quietly playing with her toys, but Sherlock doesn't know how long it'll be until she gets bored of it and wants to do something else. God, what is he supposed to do if that happens?
"Thanks," John says, and then he's down the stairs and out of the flat before Sherlock can say anything else.
Sherlock carefully goes over to the playpen to peer down at the child, and Rosie looks up at him with her big, blue eyes, drinking her juice. "Well, Watson," he says to her, curling his hands around the edge of the pen, "I suppose that it's just us now."
–
As promised, John comes back around forty five minutes later. He goes straight into the kitchen, puts a few things away, and then returns to the sitting room where Sherlock's reading to Rosie.
He had to do something, after she got tired of playing and came close to throwing a tantrum. Sherlock was 
about to have that, so he let her have her way and took her out of the pen. But she wanted attention, and John was still out, so Sherlock was forced to give it to her or listen to her cry. He still doesn't really know how to play with her, doesn't know what she likes to do. So – reading to her it was. He's seen John do that, and he didn't have to listen to the telly this way. Then things were manageable, and he could relax a little.
(Honestly, he doesn't necessarily mind watching Rosie, but he's terrified of doing something wrong or not being careful enough and she ends up hurt or upset to the point he can't calm her down. But he tries his best, because he loves her, because he loves John and she's his.)
(He loves John. Of 
he does, and he would do anything for him – no matter how uncomfortable it makes him, no matter how unfavourable or unpleasant it is. Sherlock will do it, he will endure it, and he will face whatever consequences that come from any actions he may take. Because he loves John.)
"I brought back something for dinner," John announces, and Rosie quickly gets off of Sherlock's lap to run to him and wrap herself around his leg. He laughs and runs his fingers through her hair, picking her up and giving her a kiss on the cheek while Sherlock closes the book, setting it on the table. Rosie is only two, so she doesn't talk much yet, but Sherlock thinks that she was probably bored of what he'd been reading. Well, he cannot 
children's books and will 
read one if he can help it, so of course she was likely bored, but at least she wasn't crying or fussing. That's all that matters.
"She didn't seem to like the book that much," he tells John, who then comes over to inspect it, Rosie on his hip. "I think she was bored."
"Sherlock, no offense but 
would be bored of this book too," John responds and chuckles. Sherlock stares at John's hand and he turns the book over. "I don't know of a single two year old that is interested in science."
Sherlock shrugs and John puts Rosie back in the pen. "Yes, well, I suppose she probably would've liked the violin better," Sherlock sighs, getting out of his chair. "Perhaps I should have just asked Mrs. Hudson to come up and entertain her. I wasn't sure exactly what to do once she had enough of her toys."
John turns to him and shakes his head. "No, I think you did well by yourself," he says with a smile, and then heads towards the kitchen. "Reading wasn't a bad idea, and to be quite fair, a lot of two year olds don't really listen to what you're reading to them anyway, or at least that's how it seems. She probably just liked the sound of your voice and was getting sleepy." John pulls out some ingredients as Sherlock tries to think of what to say to that. "Anyway, I'm going to start cooking now, if you'd like to help."
Sherlock nods and joins John in the kitchen, doing everything he instructs him to do until everything is finished. While John serves the food, Sherlock retrieves Rosie and puts her in her high chair, and John pulls out a bottle of red wine from the fridge and pours the two of them a glass. He then takes a seat in the place he sat this morning, and Sherlock sits too. Then they eat.
The food is devine. It feels like a meal they would have for a special occasion, but Sherlock doesn't know why today would be one. He decides not to ask, in case he's forgotten something he was supposed to remember, something John would be upset about if he didn't. He'll just wait until John brings it up, whatever it is. Unless there's nothing special today after all. Sherlock wishes he knew the answer.
When they've finished eating, John gives Rosie a very quick bath and then she goes back to playing in the pen. Sherlock collects the dishes and gets them in the sink, filling it up so that they can soak a little before washing. As he waits, suddenly everything goes dark – and he quickly deduces that John's warm hands are covering his eyes, but… why? This is odd.
"John?" Sherlock questions, confused, and blindly shuts off the water. He can feel John's chest pressing into his back and it's making his pulse elevate. He needs to be careful and control himself so that John doesn't realise.
"Keep your eyes closed for me, will you?" John says, his voice low. A chill spreads throughout Sherlock's body and he shivers, barely nodding in response. John removes his hands, sliding them down to Sherlock's arms in a way that has Sherlock's breath catching 
His eyes still closed, he finds himself being turned by John and moved around. "Sit," John adds eventually, and Sherlock obeys without question. Satisfied, John hums, his fingers brushing one of Sherlock's curls away from his face. "Okay. You can open your eyes."
Sherlock complies, and when he does, he's immediately met with the sight of a small cake topped with five candles.
He blinks, almost not understanding, until John says, "Happy Birthday, Sherlock. Make a wish."
And 
It's his 
today. Of course. So that's why, then. That's why he felt so strange today. That's why he felt like he was forgetting something, why he had trouble sleeping last night.
He immediately thinks back to his sixth birthday, the year that Victor died. Victor had come over to play pirates, and they spent the majority of the day together. He remembers Eurus wanting to play with them but they had refused to let her. He had finally got his own violin that day, and he played something his sister had taught him and everyone seemed to like it. Then they had cake, and he played with Victor some more until they had to go to bed. And that was the last time Sherlock remembers truly ever being happy on his birthday.
For a long time, he'd erased that day – with Victor replaced with a dog and Eurus deleted from his mind, he always remembered the day as if it were any other – nothing too special. But now with his memories of Victor and Eurus all intact again, he couldn't help but to recall it all, how happy he was. And the thoughts of everything – thoughts of his sixth birthday, of Eurus killing his best friend – had fuelled his nightmares last night. It's why he couldn't sleep well. He didn't connect the dots that the reason he was thinking about it again was because it's his birthday today.
"Sherlock?" John murmurs, touching his shoulder. "Is something wrong?"
Sherlock doesn't know what to say. He sits there, trying to make the words come out but he just can't.
John blows out the candles, moving until he can see Sherlock's face. He sits, scooting the chair closer. "Tell me," he says, and Sherlock just wishes that they were lovers, that it would be acceptable to hug John right now and find comfort in his warmth, to be held and kissed until he feels better. But they're not that. (They won't be that, unless Sherlock 
– but trying is terrifying.)
Thinking about Victor still hurts. Thinking about how he suffered, how scared and how lonely and in pain he must've been, sitting in the bottom of that well… it makes Sherlock feel horrible, as though he were the one that put him there. Perhaps he didn't do it physically, but it's because of him that Eurus did. He wishes he could forget again. It was easier when he didn't know.
"It's my fault," Sherlock says eventually, exhaling shakily. He shakes his head – he 
not cry, damn it. Not in front of John.
"What is?" John questions gently, his hand reaching up to touch Sherlock's face. It's such an intimate touch; if Sherlock weren't so upset, he would be struggling to hide how it makes him feel.
So Sherlock does his best to explain – his sixth birthday and how he was reminded of it, his part in Victor's death and how he dreamt about that, and everything else. John tells him that it's not his fault, but Sherlock is doubtful.
"Eurus was sick," John states, his hand dropping down to Sherlock's shoulder. "Her actions were not your fault. It doesn't matter if she did it because you wouldn't pay attention to her. 
didn't kill him. She just wasn't well."
"I suppose," Sherlock says with a slight shrug. After a few moments, he adds, "I'm sorry. You tried to make sure I had a nice evening and I–"
"No, stop right there," John tells him, interrupting. "Don't apologise. It isn't necessary. Are you all right now?"
"I will be," Sherlock replies truthfully, and gives a small smile. "Thank you, John. For listening. Actually, for… well, everything."
John smiles as well. "Do you want to try the candles again?" he asks eventually, and Sherlock nods, so John gets up and replaces the candles with five more, lighting them. "Go on, then. Make a wish."
What would Sherlock even wish for? There's not much he wants lately, except… John. John, who is always there when Sherlock needs him. God, Sherlock has never loved someone the way that he loves John.
He blows out the candles, and John takes them and tosses them in the bin. "There we are," John utters, then grabs some plates, forks, and a knife before taking a seat again. After a moment passes, he asks, "So, what did you wish for?"
"I thought you weren't supposed to say," Sherlock says to dodge the question, frowning. He watches as John cuts the chocolate cake, putting two slices onto the plates he bought over. "Isn't there a rule or something?"
John shrugs. "It's not a rule," he responds with another smile, shoving the rest of the cake aside and setting down the knife. "They just say it won't come true. You don't have to say if you don't want to, if you're afraid of it not coming true."
"Do you 
think that 
believe that the probability of birthday candle wishes coming true is actually based on whether you tell them to someone or you don't, and would therefore not tell you in hopes that it increases the chances of the wish happening?"
John chuckles fondly. "I guess not."
Sherlock goes quiet, picking up his fork. He wonders if… perhaps he could… take a chance. Make a move. And if it goes horribly wrong, then he will apologise, blame it on his emotions being "out of control today", and then shut himself away in his bedroom until the morning. And then at least he will know where John stands. But things would never be like this again if he did, and John doesn't like it. Would it be worth the risk?
"Sherlock?" John murmurs, and Sherlock looks into his eyes and makes the decision.
"What if… what if I were to 
you what I wished for? That way, 
won't be upset that I said it and then it won't come true, but you still get to know."
John takes a bite of his cake slice and swallows. "Sherlock, I don't actually believe in any of that. It's just a superstition. 
were the one that brought up it being a rule or something."
Sherlock doesn't respond, so John sighs and then says, "All right, yes. Show me, then."
Sherlock doesn't do anything for a moment, debating, but then he moves his plate, slightly leans over the table, and kisses John directly on the mouth. It only lasts a second before he pulls back, stabbing the cake with his fork without a word, face feeling warm.
He tries to not look at John, afraid of what expression he might see on his face, afraid that he's ruined things. But then a moment passes, and John finally mumbles something that sounds like, 
as he stands, before Sherlock finds himself being kissed again. His head is tilted back as far as it can go, John bending over him, his face cradled in John's hands while Sherlock's own hands grab onto John's forearms, fingers curling in the fabric of the sleeves of John's jumper. And, while surprising, it's perfect, it's… everything. Better than he ever dreamt. Every bad thing he felt before is completely gone now, replaced with only this.
When John breaks it off, their foreheads touching, Sherlock swallows with a bit of discomfort, his eyes opening.
"Git," John says affectionately. "If you'd have done this sooner, I would've planned something totally different for today."
Sherlock hums. "Well, I wasn't aware that you would react this way, otherwise I would have. I didn't think you felt the same."
"Of course I feel the same. Christ, just how many hints do I have to drop?" John then chuckles, his thumb brushing Sherlock's cheekbone.
"Apparently all of them."
John shakes his head, grinning. "I can't believe this. I thought you had long deduced how I felt about you."
Sherlock shrugs. "I have so much trouble understanding you sometimes. I didn't know if what I was seeing there had been true, or if I'd just been looking for things to see because I'm in love with you and I was letting sentiment take over and cloud my judgment of what was actually happening. I couldn't tell if I had been imagining it all or not, and the safest option was to assume I was."
John breathes out what could be a laugh but not quite, seemingly unable to stop smiling. "Yeah, well. It was hard to know for sure for me, too. But here we are – Sherlock Holmes is in love with me. I… never once thought I'd say that. Well, it just so happens that I'm in love with him too, and have been for a long time. And I want to be with him, if he'll have me."
"He'll have you," Sherlock says. "For as long as you want him."
"Always, then," John murmurs and nods, kissing Sherlock on the lips again after. "Happy Birthday, love. Now, let's finish our cake, get Rosie in bed and then we will enjoy the rest of your birthday together. Properly."
He kisses Sherlock's forehead and Sherlock smiles in response.
The day began like any other, but it ends in a way that Sherlock once could only ever find in a dream. And so for the first time in many years, he's 
happy on his birthday.
