The Aubergine Incident
Oh god. It was bad enough when he just argued with the chip and pin machine. Awkward, sure, but really, who doesn't hate the bloody things? Even when they actually take your card, they are made for...teleporting robots, or something. What else could deal with disappearing the purchases the second you've paid, as it demands every time, when if you put an extra paper on top of the balance, much less a bag, it'll sound the alarm and try to summon someone? So, sure, that fight was embarrassing, but he's pretty sure most bystanders would be understanding.
This? He might get himself banned from Tesco. And then who's going to buy their groceries? They can't always impose on Mrs. Hudson, and Sherlock... John laughs to himself. Yeah, maybe he should try to send Sherlock shopping, for once. He's not sure what the results would be, but certainly they would be entertaining. (Perhaps not for the general public, though, and John does have a conscience).
No, this time he's fucked if anyone notices. And even if they don't. Sherlock might ask what took him so long, and it's not like John can give him the actual answer. Then again, it's not like lying to the one and only consulting detective is likely to work, is it? Besides, does Tesco have security cameras? What if his mad flatmate can just take the relevant evidence off Mycroft's hands? Oh God, what if Mycroft's watching? Unlikely, sure. After all, the man surely has one or two countries to keep under his thumb at any given moment. Better things to do than keep track if John buys his baby brother's favourite brand of tea...
Then again, the thought of Mycroft (or maybe his minions, which, really, wouldn't make things better – worse, if anything) staring at him in judgment is enough for the source of John's panicked embarrassment to disappear. Maybe he should send the man a random treat, as a thank you. (No, of course not, the last thing he wants is Mycroft Holmes investigating the reasons for that.)
He shoves the aubergine in the plastic bag, grabs a couple more without even looking at them – if they end up being almost rotten, he deserves it –, knots the bag up and tosses it in his basket. Out of sight, out of mind. It's lucky they don't need any other vegetables, because at the moment he's keen on moving as far away from them as possible. What's next? Milk, bacon, bread, eggs...First of all, where has he put the list? (Oh please don't let him have dropped it and have to go back to search for it. )
It's only back home, shopping in the fridge, and holed up in his room (Sherlock didn't ask, possibly because he didn't notice when John left) that he allows himself to think about the...incident. At least now he has a wall he can bang his head against to his own satisfaction, without anyone objecting. Because that's what he feels like doing. He has never been so out of control. Not even as a teenager, hormones raging, when really everything looked sex-related.
One minute he was considering if the aubergine had the perfect firmness that would indicate it was exactly as ripe as he wanted it. The following one he was sporting a stiffy and having hallucinations. (Fine, not literal hallucinations he should see a psychiatrist about, but his brain definitely got away from him.)
It was a mix. The firmness, sure, just right for...other things, too, besides ending in a parmigiana. The shape; silly, yes, but there's a reason the corresponding emoticon stands in for a different thing, since the creation of an anatomically accurate one would probably start a riot among the puritan side of the internet. But John's undoing has been the colour. The exact same nuance of a certain almost too tight shirt his flatmate insists to wear. He could just see Sherlock wearing just the shirt, his hard cock pressing against it.
It's never going to happen. Sherlock has already rebuffed him, and the last thing John wants is to be sent away from their home. Not just because, on his income, he has a snowball's chance in hell of staying anywhere close. No, he needs Sherlock in his life, he's addicted to the man (might as well admit it) and stupid things like not being able to keep it in his pants are not the things which will ruin their partnership. He'll just have to learn to deal.
He can do that; it's not like he's a teen anymore. Being helplessly, hopelessly attracted to someone? Really, he should be an expert by now. Things are going to be smooth sailing, he promises himself. And if he's lucky, the next time he needs aubergines, Tesco will have picked a different variety, with a skin a couple shades darker or lighter. That'd be enough to help him out. If he's not lucky... He has self-control. Every fucking day he doesn't offer – again – to peel Sherlock out of the stupid shirt. He can keep himself in check while shopping, or doing anything else.
