There And Back Again
He has left everything behind. John, Mrs. Hudson, London, his scant friends, the privilege of being fussy – about food, clothes, which cases to take. One thread of the web leads to another. It doesn't matter how pedestrian it might be (Jim's obsession for having a finger in too many pies means some of his operations are, frankly, boring). If Moriarty ever was involved in it, it's Sherlock's place to destroy it lock, stock and barrel. There's one single indulgence he's allowed himself. One he scolds himself for, but going back, he wouldn't change a thing.
Sure, John will eventually realise that something is missing. Especially since Sherlock stole it from his flatmate's own laundry bin. He considered the closet, but - smell is the most potent trigger for memory, so it seemed like a better option. If all goes according to plan, John will even blame the right person, but assume Sherlock somehow destroyed it in the course of an experiment. Instead, he's wearing (has worn for way too long, even when John's smell was completely gone) one of his jumpers. He had to change style, after all. Being easily recognizable could make the whole mission pointless.
John is by his side, even when he isn't. As ever, John has saved him. No, not from the smugglers/snipers/evil of the day. Sherlock managed to avoid these on his own, mostly, and when he doesn't...well, he deserves whatever happens next. John saved him from himself. There's a Watson in his mind now, reminding him to take care of himself, because if he passes out mid-investigation things are not going to be nice. Keeping the temptations at bay, because no, drugs aren't a viable option.
In the meantime, he has to trust John to Mycroft. He's hated his brother's meddling for ages, but the truth is – without him, Sherlock's only choice would have been to actually agree to Moriarty's diktat. He'll owe his brother, probably more than he can ever repay, no matter how many times an important document goes lost or a politician gets themselves blackmailed, maybe even kidnapped. He might demand updates, of course. But it would be too big a risk.
What if they're intercepted? Who could Mycroft Holmes possibly send info about one John Watson to? The game would be up. The whole point of this mission is to make sure no long-standing orders from Moriarty (of course there are, he's not so stupid to assume they're safe just because the man blew his brains out) can be carried out.
Besides, he'd never be content, no matter how many stolen images or statistics Mycroft could possibly send. No, better to let his brother play mother to someone else in London (after all, Mycroft hates his routine changing) and keep an eye out for his John's wellbeing.
For years and years, despite everything that happens, Sherlock feels in a rut. Like an employee, almost, doing his job day in and day out, and dreaming of the day he'll be allowed to take a holiday. No matter what fights or mysteries or chaos he's involved in, it's just...boring. (If there's a hell, Moriarty probably has a live feed of every thought of his; the insult might hurt him more than pitchforks.) If he's ever wondered, this is his evidence that no, he doesn't live for the work. At least not anymore.
He's long lost track of the days (and many other things) when he is, finally, allowed back home. The job is done. He can see John. John. John. John. John...Among the things he has forgotten are that John has, all along, been mourning. The first look at his – John, on the street outside Bart's, almost fells him. The grief has left cruel signs on him. John is thin. He looks exhausted. Hurt. And it's all on him.
Well, he's here to make it all better. "John!"
John ignores him at first, and – he deserves that, but he refuses to back down until he's acknowledged. Even if said acknowledgment consists of "Don't come near me anymore." So he comes closer, and he gets, at least, a second glance. And then a third.
"Sherlock?" John sounds as hesitant and thready as he looks.
He nods. "Yep." To be fair, his voice is trembling, too.
John grabs him. Hands on both arms, tight enough to bruise, desperate to feel the solid muscle underneath. 
. He hadn't calculated that.
"We are going to talk," John announces, no, orders. Another look at him, top to bottom. "And then, we're going home so you can give me this back." Hands soften their grip, one goes to pluck at the woollen jumper Sherlock almost swims in.
"And then?" he can't help but ask.
"We'll see how we want to continue." No, of course 'continue' doesn't mean the option to continue disrobing Sherlock is on the table. ...Is it?
