When Sherlock attempts to re-enter John's life nearly two years after the fall, everything is different – John is no longer living at Baker Street, and is in fact newly seeing someone else (some woman named Mary, Sherlock has learnt from a week of stalking), which hurts quite a lot, considering before Sherlock leapt from the rooftop of Barts, he and John had been in a relationship. But he knows that it can't be helped – after all, John has thought that he was dead for about two years now and Sherlock had no choice but to let him believe it for his safety. And while the past two years have been just a quick blur for Sherlock, hardly worth remembering, he knows it must be a different story for John. Sherlock knows for a fact that John loved him (he would never doubt that for a second. He loved John as well – 
loves him) and he also knows that witnessing his suicide must've been awful for John, and that he's probably been blaming himself over not saving Sherlock ever since even despite of what Sherlock said that day, moments before the jump. But Sherlock is back now and wants to make it all right again, wants to make sure John really does know that it wasn't his fault, would never have been his fault if Sherlock had 
died, because he does truly love John to death and can't stand the thought of him thinking that he was to blame and never knowing the truth. Sherlock can't stand what he's done to John. He has to fix it.
Even if their relationship 
pick up where it left off, which Sherlock is sure will end up being the case. He knows that John will be furious with him, and that he, at best (realistically), will probably want to go back to being only friends, since Mary is in the picture now. And at worst, he will never want to see Sherlock again. He wouldn't blame John if that's what he chooses in the end, but Sherlock hopes it won't be that. (Please.)
So it comes as a bit of a surprise when John completely ignores him on the day that Sherlock – after talking himself out of it and then reconsidering multiple times before giving up and heading inside – finally makes his move and reveals himself to him, sitting down across from him at a table at Angelo's. No matter how much Sherlock speaks, softly begs for John to look at him, John doesn't get angry, won't answer him, won't even look in his direction, instead only looking down at his mobile. It suddenly occurs to Sherlock that John might think him to be a hallucination or something and is ignoring him because he knows better, has had to learn to know better after all this time. (God, he has likely caused John to 
him. What has he done?)
"John, please just… say something," Sherlock tries again, starting to feel defeated. Why couldn't this be easier? It was difficult enough to convince himself to just come out and tell John the truth, but John won't even acknowledge him. It's a little bit discouraging. "Please, look at me, John." As he says this, he reaches out and touches John's fingers.
"Oh, bugger off," John grumbles and angrily shoves his phone in his pocket as he gets up. Sherlock feels as though John has just hit him, his lips parting in hurt and shock as he jerks back. John then leaves without another word, leaving Sherlock behind, and Sherlock doesn't follow, wondering how this all went horribly wrong already somehow and he hasn't even had the chance to properly explain yet. He doesn't understand; he thought that John might be a bit more surprised to see him. Unless… John still thinks that Sherlock isn't real. Which is a possibility. He thought the touch would be convincing enough.
Sherlock doesn't see much of John after that, trying to stalk him some more and look for an opportunity to prove to John that he's actually here, that he's not dead. One, unfortunately, doesn't come; when John goes out anymore it's usually with his new girlfriend, and Sherlock doesn't want to have their reunion with her around – it'd be incredibly awkward and painful. He keeps his distance and just hopes that there's another day when he can catch John alone.
In the meantime, he finds himself remembering the day he'd left. He thinks back to when he and John had that argument over Mrs. Hudson getting shot (but of course, that's not 
what happened – it was simply a distraction, something to get John to go so he didn't have to see his lover die), and John left, thinking that Sherlock didn't care. He recalls the look of disappointment that had crossed John's face moments before he went, the softly uttered, 
and the 
before he slammed the door and disappeared. Sherlock had really wanted to die then – that look of disappointment coming from John was the worst thing ever directed at him. It still haunts him, that look. But it was the result of doing what was necessary to save John's life. To save Mrs. Hudson and Lestrade, too. Sherlock would've never forgiven himself if he'd let them all be killed.
And then he didn't see John again until they were on the phone, when Sherlock was on the roof and had said that the phone call was his suicide note, and then John was crying, 
apologising and begging him to come down and talk it out, unaware that Sherlock couldn't do that without it meaning the deaths of three of the ones he cared about the most.
he'd said then, and the tears that came were real; it was the first time Sherlock had cried in a very long time. 
And as Sherlock had tossed his phone away, he locked eyes with John on the pavement, who shouted at him not to do it, 
but he had no choice. So he let himself fall. The rest is a blur.
He wishes that John never had to see that. Perhaps he could've come back for him later and they could've gone off and left London together. But John figured out too soon that everything with Mrs. Hudson was all a distraction to get him away from the scene, and as a result Sherlock had to jump in front of him. If John miraculously agrees to take him back now, after that, Sherlock would still feel like the worst partner in existence. He doesn't deserve John, he's aware. If he ever did, he doesn't anymore. But he would appreciate and treasure John's decision to take him back and forgive him every single day that they would remain together, if it does happen. (He hopes it would be forever, in that case.)
But… how to go about getting his attention when he's alone? Sherlock isn't sure what to do, deciding to wait it out and keep looking for a chance.
—
Sherlock's asleep in his bedroom at Baker Street one night after stalking John and Mary (which he'd done in the morning and then didn't see them the rest of the day), but he wakes up when he feels the bed dip and opens his eyes to find that John is suddenly lying beside him, turned away towards the wall. Sherlock takes a shuddering breath, wondering when he arrived or what the hell he's doing here. Did he realise all along that Sherlock wasn't some hallucination? Did he just need some time alone to process everything? He should've just said! Sherlock would've given it to him.
"John," he whispers into the darkness. He doesn't touch him, afraid of what might happen, how John might react to it.
John doesn't respond at first, but after a moment, he speaks, his voice coming out slightly broken, as though he's trying not to cry. "Sherlock," he says, still facing away. He sighs then. "Um… so Mary and I had a bit of an argument."
Sherlock's brows knit together. He supposes that John must know about the stalkings if he's just talking about Mary like Sherlock should know her. Well, at least he doesn't seem angry, which is good. Sherlock isn't very good with John's anger. He tries to find words, but he isn't sure what to say – it's a bit difficult to want to talk about the new girlfriend of someone you're still in love with. Sherlock clears his throat.
"What about?" he asks carefully, wanting so badly to pull John into his arms but knows that maybe he shouldn't. Not yet. He'll wait and see how John feels.
John stays quiet for some time. "She's upset because I've been sulking all day," he finally answers with a humourless chuckle. He's probably crying, but Sherlock can't tell for sure. "Because I miss you."
"I miss you too, John," Sherlock tells John's back, his heart pounding so quickly. "I'm so sorry."
"You jumped off of the rooftop two years ago today," John murmurs, as though Sherlock is unaware. Well, to be fair, Sherlock didn't even realise what day it was until now, so he supposes he 
unaware. "I still don't really know why."
"I could tell you, if you want me to," Sherlock says softly, wanting to see John's face. (Please, look at me.)
"I mean, I suppose that Mycroft filled me in, sort of, but… I still don't seem to understand it all. I know that I should but… I guess I just wish there'd been another way." John sighs again, and then finally turns around to face Sherlock as if hearing his silent wish, his eyes dry. So he hadn't been crying then, but he looks like he might be close to it. "These last two years have been the worst of my life. Worse than before I met you, and I thought it couldn't ever be worse than that. I couldn't have ever imagined this pain."
Sherlock frowns, guilty. "I know," he utters lamely. "I'm so sorry. It's been difficult for me as well, but I'm aware that it had to have been so much harder for you. I'm sorry I did that to you, made you see that. I wish I could take it back, but… if I had, then you'd be dead. I don't regret saving you."
"Sherlock, why did you leave me?" John whispers sadly after a minute of silence, getting choked up. "Why couldn't you come to me instead of sending me away? I'm sure that we could've found another way, one that meant keeping you with me. Instead, I lost you. I can't even remember exactly the last time I'd kissed you, and it's driving me mad. I should 
dammit. It's important; it was our last kiss. And yet I can't recall it."
"You can kiss me now, if you want," Sherlock offers, but then remembers Mary. He knows that John isn't a cheater, even if Sherlock came first, even if Sherlock loved him first. He wouldn't do that to her. "Right… perhaps that's not a good idea."
John is quiet for a long time again, not really looking anywhere. Sherlock wants to hold him, but doesn't want to cross any lines. He remains still.
"I wish I could kiss you again," John says suddenly, tears in the corners of his eyes. Sherlock wants to wipe them away. "I wish I could go back in time and stop you from doing this, or at least ensure that things happened differently, to allow me to see you again. I wish I could hold you one last time, tell you how much I still love you. Because I 
still love you, Sherlock. I still love you more than I've ever loved anybody else. But…"
"John," Sherlock whispers, hoping that he won't say that Sherlock can't be in his life anymore because of what happened. It would devastate him, but… it's fair. It's absolutely fair. Sherlock just doesn't want it to happen. "You 
hold me, if that's what you want. It doesn't have to be the last time."
John swallows. "But you're dead," he says, which has Sherlock going from feeling panicked to confused in an instant. "You've been dead for a long time. And you're never coming back."
"What?" Sherlock murmurs, finally reaching out to touch John's cheek, but John doesn't react. "What are you saying? I'm right here, and I'm not leaving you again."
John is crying now, the unshed tears finally cascading over his cheeks. "Why did you have to die? Why couldn't it have been me instead? I'd do anything to make sure you were still breathing right now. Anything."
"But–" Sherlock tries, but John keeps talking as though he's not there.
"I've had to endure these past two years without you, and every single day that's passed since I lost you, I've felt like I couldn't live without you for a second longer. But then I 
live, and then I would wish that I hadn't."
"John," Sherlock whispers, distraught. He doesn't exactly know what's going on, but he has a bad feeling, and he doesn't like it.
"I wish you were here, I just want to see you again," John says, and that confirms the thoughts behind the bad feeling for Sherlock – John actually cannot see him. In that instant, Sherlock remembers everything.
Two years ago, Sherlock Holmes jumped off of the roof of St. Bart's Hospital in an attempt to fake his death and save the lives of his friends and lover. But the plan failed, and he never left London to dismantle Moriarty's network like he was supposed to – in fact, he never even left Barts that day.
Two years ago, Sherlock Holmes died. He was killed instantly upon hitting the pavement. It was a quick, painless death. He never felt a thing.
All this time, he wasn't aware that he'd died, only seeing what he wanted to see. It explains why he doesn't remember the last two years, why John ignored him that day at Angelo's. He must've been grumbling at whoever he'd been texting, not Sherlock. He didn't ever see Sherlock. As far as John knew, Sherlock was never there at all.
As Sherlock tries to process this information, John starts speaking again. "I've thought about killing myself many times since I watched you do it," he mutters darkly, sounding empty and lost – unlike himself, "but I could never make myself go through with it. I would sit for hours with the loaded gun in my hands and think about it, but I just couldn't do it. And then I met Mary, and for a long time I was distracted by her."
Sherlock listens, knowing now that it's useless to speak; John won't hear him anyway. He rubs John's cheekbone with his thumb, knowing that the touch won't be felt, but still wanting to comfort him.
"Even distracted, I never once forgot about you," John continues quietly into the darkness, "but having her there to talk to, having someone to talk about you with, helped. The pain of your death slowly seemed to ebb away. It no longer felt like I'd had a hole in my chest where my heart should be – the heart that you stole at that very first dinner, the day after I met you, and kept with you until you'd died. Instead that pain faded until it was just a dull, yet persistent ache. But lately the pain has been returning. I've been thinking of you more often again. It's been two years but it suddenly feels like it just happened yesterday. I just can't get over you no matter how much I try, and I feel guilty for trying, and Mary isn't happy about any of it. But how are you supposed to get over the death of the love of your life? How can I be expected to move on when you completely changed my life like you did? It's just not possible, Sherlock."
He wishes that he could tell John that it's okay. Well, John won't hear him, but he can still say it. "It's all right if you move on," he says, caressing John's cheek. "It's all right. You deserve to be happy again."
"I still keep that picture of us in my wallet," John utters after a few more minutes pass, wiping his tears away. "The one that I'd printed out. You hated that I kept it there, but I just liked being able to see you even when we weren't together. You didn't like getting your photo taken so it was one of the only pictures I had of you. Still is, actually. Mary was understanding of it at first but she keeps hinting that I should replace it with one of her and myself, and put the one of us away. 
she keeps saying. But it's safe right where it is, with me. I don't like that she keeps trying to erase what I have left of you." John shakes his head, frowning. "She's jealous of a ghost. That's what the argument was about, basically. She thinks I'm stuck in the past. Maybe I am. I just… can't keep doing this. I don't think I can live without you anymore. I've already made up my mind."
Sherlock remains quiet, listening. John stays quiet for a long time again too, and it's long enough that Sherlock thinks that John might get up and leave or something, but he doesn't. He stays where he is, looking thoughtful and sad. Sherlock doesn't understand what John is planning.
"I miss you," John says again in a whisper, eventually. "I miss… touching your skin, and kissing you… holding you in my arms. I miss hearing your voice, seeing your face… everyday. Miss talking to you – sorry that I haven't done that in a while. I just… hope that you're listening, wherever you are. I love you, Sherlock. God, I… I love you so much. I can't wait… until we're together again. It won't be long now."
After that John goes quiet, shutting his eyes, and it's then that Sherlock finally gets it. He leans in and gently presses his lips to John's, and it's soft and perfect and Sherlock has missed kissing him – even though John isn't kissing back. It's all right; Sherlock understands. He understands everything now. He pulls back after a moment, curling up into John's chest as he shuts his eyes as well. John is right – it won't be long.
"I love you too, John," he says, and then John is going very, very still, and Sherlock is falling asleep, holding him close.
—
you 
—
(John's body is discovered three days later by Mycroft, who'd noticed via surveillance that John had visited Baker Street on the anniversary of Sherlock's death and had never left the building. His sudden death isn't quite surprising – in fact, Mycroft had expected it to happen a long time ago. It's still upsetting to those who loved him, however.
He makes sure to have John buried right beside Sherlock in the cemetery – after all, right beside each other is the place where John and Sherlock were always meant to be.)
—
