: Hello my amazing readers. I'm sorry I have updated in (checks calendar)...fuck. Over a year? Sorry about that. I went full time on my job. Had full on mental breakdown. Broke my actual leg. Trigger warning for ick (skip to next paragraph), I compressed the top of my tibia (the lower part of the leg) and had to have surgery to put in a bone graph and a metal plate complete with long, metal screws.
The shock from said surgery and the long recovery made it hard to concentrate let alone read or write, so I had to quit my job and all the hell that comes with being jobless.
But have no fear, I'm back on my bullshit and have lots of fun things coming up for you. More Sherlock fanfics (insert Kermit the Frog arm waving GIF here), with hopes of actually finishing my Beauty and the Beast AU. Finishing my Shakespeare and Hathaway Valentine fic. More Good Omens fic and maybe if my muse is tickled enough a Mass Effect fanfic which I have a vague idea for. I have dozens of unfinished fics, so as I start finishing those up, you'll see them come up.
I was sad to hear of Una Stubbs passing. I don't know what this means for the future of the show, but I personally couldn't see the show without her.
This is going to be a three part story. Sherlock/John, the aftermath of them coming out as a couple with the setup for the last story, and then Mycroft/Greg. I have the first two parts written and about to start on the third. The second story will have multiple chapters, and possibly the third will as well.
Which brings me to my little tag of canon divergence. I created a different back story for what happened to the "other one" and removed Eurus all together. The Final Problem still happens but altered quite a bit. No insane asylum for one. No hypnotic suggestion so powerful it makes people do things against their will. And absolutely no "dog being a repressed memory for childhood friend" nor the rampant character assassination of Mr and Mrs Holmes. Just one disfigured and disgruntled Baron Gruner hell bent on revenge.
Anyway, I hope you enjoy!
John wasn't sure how long he hadn't been paying attention but it came as a shock to his system when the new constable, Erika Rodriguez, said, "Some of us are going out for drinks after this, you want to come?"
He blinked as his slow brain took in the information. He knew objectively that Erika was a good-looking woman with long dark hair and deep brown eyes. His younger self would have kicked him if he said no. But the years had made him gun shy, and he looked over at Sherlock.
Sherlock was across the garden talking to Greg. As if he felt John's gaze upon him, he looked over at John and smiled. It made something twist in John's chest. He knew Sherlock meant it to be encouraging, but the smile didn't reach his eyes and if John had been a betting man (he used to be, but not anymore) he would have said Sherlock looked sad.
A wave of fondness and exhaustion washed over him. He turned back to Erika. "That sounds great, but Mrs Hudson isn't as young as she used to be, and I really should be getting back home."
Erika frowned. "What does your landlady have to do with going for a couple of drinks? Isn't Sherlock going to be home if anything happens?"
John barked out a laugh. "Oh, Mrs Hudson can take care of herself just fine, it's the chasing my daughter around all day that can't be easy on her."
Erika's head whipped back. "Excuse me? Your what?"
John smiled. "My daughter."
Erika looked at the other officers milling around, glaring at them as if they were to blame for not telling her John had a child. "I didn't know you had a kid."
And there it was. John sighed to himself. He pulled out his wallet and the picture of his daughter. "Her name is Rosie, she'll be two in February," he explained, holding out the photo to the new constable.
Erika looked at the bright blonde toddler and her lip twitched. "She's cute."
John grinned. "Thanks. I'll be seeing you around then."
She just nodded, and John jogged over to Sherlock and Greg.
"Hey," he greeted. He grabbed Sherlock's elbow. "You ready to go?"
Greg and Sherlock shared a look of surprise.
"You aren't joining us for drinks?" Greg asked.
John just shook his head. "I really should get back and pick up Rosie from Mrs Hudson. She's taken her so much this week, I really can't bring myself to make her keep her overnight again."
Sherlock's gaze swept over the doctor. "You didn't get her number."
John sighed, and giving Sherlock's elbow a squeeze, he walked toward the main road to hail a taxi without saying a word.
Sherlock looked helplessly at Greg, who told him to go.
Sherlock nodded and dashed to catch up to John.
"John!" he called out.
John shoved his hands into his pockets, but slowed to allow his friend to catch up.
"I'm sorry," Sherlock murmured as he fell into step with the army doctor. "I don't know what I said wrong. I just thought that she was so clearly into you that you would have at least gotten her number."
John barked a bitter laugh. "Her interest cooled pretty quick when she found out I had a daughter."
Sherlock frowned as he hailed a taxi. "How did she find out?"
This time John's laugh was more genuine. "I told her."
Sherlock opened the door to the taxi, and John got in first, as it took Sherlock a moment for his brain to process what he said.
He slid in next to John and gave the cabby the address.
They sat in silence a while before Sherlock spoke up. "Why would you tell her about Watson?"
John smiled. "She's my litmus test. How women react to hearing I have a daughter is a clear indication on how they'd treat her once they meet."
Sherlock tilted his head as he considered it. "Her loss. Watson is a gem."
John laughed. "She's a bloody terror, and you know it."
Sherlock laughed too.
Again they lapsed into silence. But this time it was John who broke it.
"Why do you call Rosie 'Watson'?"
Sherlock ducked his head and turned to face the window. "It's rude."
John's eyebrows shot up. "That's never stopped you before."
Sherlock pursed his lips and clasped his hands together. "I never liked the name Rose and after finding out it was Mary's assassin name, it really soured it on me that she would call your daughter that." He glanced over at John.
John mulled it over for a moment before he nodded.
The tension bled out Sherlock's frame upon hearing that John wasn't angry at him.
"What would you have named her, given the chance?" John asked.
Sherlock's eyes twinkled mischievously. "Sherlock."
John started laughing and couldn't stop. Every time he thought he could catch his breath, Sherlock would giggle and it would start all over again.
Once they finally calmed down, John asked again, "No, seriously, Sherlock. What would you have named her?"
Sherlock thought about teasing him further by saying 'Irene,' but even he knew that would kill the mood faster than a bullet.
"Violet." he finally said, looking down at his hands.
"Violet," John repeated, tasting the name on his tongue. "Violet." He thought for a moment. "It's lovely. What made you pick that one?"
Sherlock looked up at his friend in surprise. He hadn't thought John would like it. "It's my mother's middle name. I always thought that if I ever had a daughter, that's what I would name her."
"I like it."
Sherlock blushed and was grateful for the dark in that moment.
They fell silent, and Sherlock spent the rest of the trip looking at John via the glass of the window. Once they got to Baker Street, Sherlock leapt from the taxi and onto the pavement, leaving John to pay the cabby.
John sighed, pulling out his wallet to pay their fare. As the cabby was handing him his change, she said, "Not for nothing, and it's probably none of my business, but if my ex looked at me the way he looks at you, we would have gotten married instead of breaking up."
John looked back at the now-open door to their home and then back to the cabby. He quietly thanked her and made his way through the door. He closed it behind him and spotted Sherlock and Mrs Hudson talking outside her front door.
When he joined them, he turned to Mrs Hudson. "And how was her Highness tonight?"
Mrs Hudson chuckled. "She was her usual angelic self."
John raised a skeptical eyebrow. "You'll have to tell me your secret some day."
"Not on your life," she replied.
"The little miss is in her cot," Sherlock said softly. "Moving her now would probably wake her."
John nodded. Rosie wasn't usually asleep when they got home late, but when she was, she slept the night with Mrs Hudson. "I'll swing by first thing in the morning to take her off your hands."
Mrs Hudson waved him off. "You'll do no such thing. She'll be fine with me, why don't you take a chance for a lie-in." She bumped Sherlock with her hip. "This one must have had you running around tonight."
Sherlock ducked his head and John smiled fondly. "Nothing I couldn't handle, but I appreciate the offer all the same. And I'm not about to look a gift horse in the mouth." He kissed her cheek. "Thanks, Mrs H."
Sherlock and John bid their landlady good night and made their way quietly up the stairs to their flat.
"That was one hell of a case," John said, as he placed his wallet and keys in the little dish by the coat rack. "I think I'm still buzzing from all that adrenaline."
Sherlock smiled at him as he just tossed his coat over the arm of his chair. "I still can't get the image out of my head of you hitting Morris square in the jaw and him going down like a tonne of bricks."
"I warned him three times to back up," John said with a grin. "He really should have taken my advice before it became medical."
Sherlock laughed out loud. He kicked off his shoes and headed for the kitchen. "I was going to make some tea, would you like some?"
John picked up after Sherlock, hanging up both their coats and setting their shoes by the door. "Do we have chamomile?"
"Yes, Doctor," Sherlock said teasingly over his shoulder.
John smiled as he settled on his chair. "Sounds good then." He breathed in the comforting scent of Baker Street. He had missed the hustle and bustle of the city when he was in the quiet suburbs with Mary. It was good to be back.
Sherlock soon came out with two cups of steaming tea. He handed one to John and then sat down in his chair with his own.
John took a long, satisfied sip of tea. "You always seem to make the best tea. I can't help but over-steep it every time."
"It's just chemistry. You know, the thing I happen to to have a degree in," Sherlock muttered over his cup before taking a sip.
John rolled his eyes. "Yeah, yeah, Mr Smartypants Double Major with chemistry and criminology. Some of us actually worked hard for our degrees."
Sherlock raised a eyebrow. "I 
 the smartest man in England."
John smirked. "Is Mycroft out of the country then?"
Sherlock nearly choked on his tea, spitting it out and coughing. Once he caught his breath he glared at John. "As a matter of fact, Mycroft 
 in Wales at the moment. Both Scotland and Wales have been teasing separation from Great Britain and his superiors have sent him to see how serious the rumblings actually are."
John grimaced in sympathy. "The poor bastard. I would have thought after all that nasty business with Al Gruner, he would have earned some time off."
Sherlock's lip curled in equal distaste. "That man has a lot to answer for. Blowing up our flat, kidnapping the three of us and that despicable torture chamber, just for starters."
John nodded. His knee started bouncing and he set down his cup to avoid spilling it.
Sherlock finished his tea. "Are you all right?"
John clenched his fist. "Just wired, I guess. With the adventure with Morris and remembering all the things we went through because a pompous lech got acid thrown at him for crossing the wrong woman and he decides to blame us for it, just..." he took a deep breath. "Sorry. I think I just need to go somewhere quiet to stop the buzzing."
Sherlock chuckled. "You would think that quiet would be the answer to the noise in your head, but believe me when I say that background noise is better for that kind of thing."
John frowned. "What do you mean?"
"It's not silence or quiet reflection that calms the white noise in your head," Sherlock explained.
"It's not?" John asked and Sherlock shook his head. "Then what does help?"
Sherlock smiled softly. "What I usually do is play my violin or put on a documentary that I've seen before. By giving my subconscious something focus on instead of whatever problem that's plaguing me, I can usually find the answer."
John scratched the back of his neck. "Better than three patches or cigarettes?" He grinned teasingly.
"Oh ha," Sherlock murmured. "Do you want to try it or not?"
"You 
 the expert, and only fools don't listen to experts."
John gulped down his tea, and Sherlock took it from him to put the cups in the sink. When he returned, he found that John had decamped to the sofa.
Sherlock smirked and sat down next to John, but instead of sitting still, he swung his body around to lay his head on John's lap.
"Comfortable?" John asked, amusement coloring his voice.
Sherlock looked up and grinned. "It's the best spot to watch telly."
John just shook his head and picked up the remote. He searched the channels for something and settled on a penguin documentary.
After some time Sherlock gave a contented hum and John looked down at his friend. Apparently during the course of the show, John had taken to running his fingers through Sherlock's hair absentmindedly.
Sherlock looked up at him like he had gotten caught doing something wrong.
Oh.
"Oh," John murmured and smiled broadly.
"John?" Sherlock asked, confused.
"I just figured it out," John replied.
Sherlock struggled to sit up, but John's hand in his hair didn't allow much room for movement. "What was the question?"
"Rosie needing a second parent."
"I still don't understand," Sherlock said softly.
"The reason I had been dating, or at least trying to, is that children tend thrive better in two parent homes," John said. "I had been wracking my brain all night why I wasn't interested in Erika."
"Well, you said she reacted badly to you having a child," Sherlock argued.
"Yeah, but I don't pull out that card right off," John said. "I usually wait until I know them better, and it's not as though she was asking me out on a date. I often go to drinks with the constabulary after a case."
"That's certainly true," Sherlock conceded.
"But I realized that I don't need to be chasing the next Mrs Watson, because I have you."
Sherlock struggled to sit up again, and this time John let him. John looked down at the small strip of sofa between them, avoiding eye contact.
"I'm not understanding," Sherlock said, his voice cracking with emotion.
John sighed. "I mean, Sherlock, that you are Rosie's parent in almost every way. You care for her, I'd even go as far as to say you love her. I doubt that I could find anyone out there that would love her more than you do."
"Well, of course I–"
John held up a hand. "But even if Rosie wasn't in the picture, 
 would have the perfect partner, specific gender not required." Sherlock gasped and pulled his legs up to get his knees underneath him, but John stalled him as he opened his mouth to speak. "You've always been there even when I pushed you away. You've proven like no one else can that you would literally die for me. And I realized that I don't want anyone else. I don't 
 anyone else. You. No one else, just you."
"But you aren't gay," Sherlock felt the need to point out.
"That's true, but you are," John replied. Sherlock nodded. "Then it's a good thing I'm bisexual."
Sherlock's head shot up and he looked John in the eyes. "You are? I mean, of course you are, I've known since the day with the cabby, but I didn't realize that you knew."
John took Sherlock's face in his hands. "Shhh."
Sherlock gulped, trying desperately to get air into his now belabored lungs. "I would like you to kiss me now."
John chuckled. "Yeah?"
"Yes, please."
John pulled Sherlock close and pressed their lips together.
Sherlock straddled John's thighs to relieve the stress on his neck and legs being in such an awkward position and John hummed happily, wrapping his arms around his waist.
Finally they pulled apart, their foreheads touching as they caught their breath.
Sherlock looked into John's eyes. "Are we–I mean, does this–" He couldn't find the words to articulate what he wanted to say.
"Whatever you want, Sherlock," John murmured. "I'll be with you however you want."
"Even if that means coming out to the world?"
John chuckled. "Just let me come out to my friends first." Then he kissed him again. He pulled away and panted. He looked up into Sherlock's eyes.
"I need you," he admitted. "I didn't realize how much until tonight. You slid into my life and...I just don't know."
Sherlock cupped John's cheek and John leaned into the touch, closing his eyes.
"We need each other."
John opened his eyes and nodded. "We both need danger to thrive, but for different reasons. Mutually beneficial reasons."
"It's like a boat, it might be safe in the harbor, but that's not what it's for, it's meant to go on the water," Sherlock tried to explain. "Everyone expects you to stay in the harbor anyway, because you look too nice to weather the high seas. And then they see broken me and don't think I 
 weather the storm. But somehow together we can handle anything the world thinks to throw at us."
"Was that just a roundabout way of saying that it's just the two of us against the world?" John asked, amused.
Sherlock opened his mouth to retort, but instead closed it when he gave it more thought. "I suppose it is."
"As long as the boat you compare me to isn't the ship of Theseus I'll forgive the flowery speech," John muttered, rubbing their noses together.
Sherlock turned serious, cocking his head to the side. "I'd love you whatever form you take."
John huffed in surprise and hugged Sherlock tight. "Only you could say something so gushingly sentimental about a philosophical theory. That's why I love you."
Sherlock kissed him, and things slowly became heated. Hands and lips seeking each other. John pulled up the back of Sherlock's shirt, wanting to feel the warmth of Sherlock's skin. A moan escaped Sherlock's lips. He pulled away and looked down at John in shock.
John smiled up at him and shook his head. "You have to know how much I want you."
Sherlock nodded shyly.
"And as eager as I am to get as much of you as possible," John grunted, "I'm not as young as I once was, and this sofa isn't going to cut it for what I want to do you."
Sherlock's eyebrows shot up. "I see." He stood up and held out his hand to John.
John took his hand and let Sherlock lead him to his bedroom. They slowly undressed and lowered themselves onto the bed where they took each other apart, learning each other's bodies.
When they finished, John got up to clean them off and then came back to bed. Sherlock immediately curled around him and put his head on John's chest.
John smiled down at the riot of curls and began to card his fingers through Sherlock's soft, dark hair.
"I think this is the happiest I've been in so long," John admitted.
"Me too," Sherlock murmured.
John wrapped his arms around him tight. "I can't help but feel like I don't deserve this. I've hurt you too many times, I have to atone for so much."
Sherlock propped himself up on his elbow to stare down at him. "You have atoned for so much already. It's a process, not a deadline. And as far as I'm concerned if you can't trust yourself, at least trust me. Trust Watson. If we think you've atoned, then you have. Trust us, all right?"
John let out a watery chuckle and croaked out, "I will. I promise."
"Good."
Sherlock settled back down on John and the two of them drifted off to sleep in each other's arms. Content at last.
