From the blog of Dr. John H. Watson
It has been two weeks since the Euros incident and I wish I could say that my life was easing back to the way it was, but it is a lot easier said than done. I have started taking more hours at the clinic and am trying to juggle raising my two-year-old daughter. Sherlock has yet to take any cases since the incident and that is understandable due to the trauma we have both suffered. Sherlock's purpose has gone from solving cases to trying to hold his family together.
He has been traveling back and forth from London to his family home to an undisclosed Island prison where his new sister is being kept which I am under orders from the high and mighty Mycroft Holmes to never disclose or whisper the name of. I have yet to accompany him back to the wretched place and I doubt I ever will even though I have been assured that everything is under control.
My former residence of 221 B Baker Street is still under renovation and when Sherlock finds himself in London he stays at my home getting closer to his god daughter. He has changed a lot from the unfeeling man I first met and is trying to make sure to strengthen the bonds to those close to him.
"Da!" Rosie babbled as she pulled on his pant leg.
He stood up make sure to pick her up and bounce her up and down a few times to make her laugh.
"Seems like I didn't miss anything." Sherlock said making his way down the hall with a bag of fish and chips.
Rosie turned eyes wide reaching for her uncle who was quick to put down the food on the living room table and taking her from my arms.
"Hello, young Watson. I've only been gone 15 minutes."
John rolled his eyes as he went to the kitchen to get three plates and bring them back to the living room opening the bags of food and taking out the containers to dump them on the plates.
"You've been leaving and going so many times in the past two weeks she doesn't know if shell see you in 15 minutes when you leave or two days."
Sherlock hummed bringing Rosie closer to his chest and taking a seat on the couch, "Well if you must know rose of the world I will be staying here for the night and leaving in the morning."
"Back to your parents?"
"No. Baker Street actually. Renovations should be done by now or at least soon. I talked to Mrs. H today she said the infrastructure is finally habitable there is just the issue of the plumbing and making sure all the electrical wiring of the apartment is ready. I'm thinking I should be able to move back in tomorrow and give you your house back."
John turned to Sherlock his arm steadying itself as he picked up a plate of food.
"Oh. You don't have to go. I didn't mean to put you out you are always welcome here mate."
"Thank you, John. But it's time."
John nodded, "Alright. If you ever want to drop by feel free… just a give me a call or a text beforehand. I will miss the free childcare from time to time."
Sherlock laughed picking up a piece of fish with his hands and taking a bite, "No you won't. Besides You can always drop by and have Mrs. H take care of her."
John shook his head, "Mind feeding her a bit, I'm gonna get the drinks."
"You're milking all the free childcare you can aren't you."
John got the drinks two beers for him and Sherlock and a sippy cup with milk for Rosie. He smiled once he saw his daughter munching on a chip with one hand and offering another to her uncle with the other.
"I thought I told you to feed her not the other way round."
"How's the clinic?"
"Uh good-good."
Sherlock turned to look at him examining all external signs that prove otherwise.
"Sherlock don't analyze me."
"I'm not. If I were I'd say you were obviously over worked. You are taking 10 hours of over time to cover the mortgage. You have been sleeping round 5 hours every night at least on the nights that I am here but you are a creature of habit... but I am not saying that at all."
"I'm taking a few hours there is nothing wrong with that. Do you have any idea how much diapers and toys and daycare cost."
"You should move back to Baker street. 221C is available and Mrs. H would love to have you back."
"I can't just move."
Sherlock took another chip, "It's closer to the clinic and Mrs. H could take care of Rosie."
"Sherlock- "
"Mycroft can cover your part of the rent. He owes me for forever."
"I don't think it's best."
"It will allow you to drop Rosie off with me should you start dating again."
"Should? Sherlock it sounds good yeah it sounds great, but I don't think moving to a place that's been blown up before is safe."
"I'll have Mycroft increase security more than it already has."
"I'll think about it."
Sherlock nodded, "Alright."
John smiled taking a sip of his beer, "Are you going to start taking clients soon then."
Sherlock paused turning to look at Rosie and brushing her hair back, "I don't know. My parents and Euros they need me. Mycroft he. He's been. They blame him. I mean there is just as much blame thrown at them but there's this new line and they're on opposite sides."
"Euros is as much to blame as well. She knew what she was doing."
"It's not her fault."
"She tried to kill us. She killed four people in Sherrinford, Sherlock. She's psychotic."
"She's my sister. I can't just shut her out that what made her do all this in the first place."
John sighed moving to pick up the empty plates and take them back to the kitchen, "She's not talking yet."
"No. Well we communicate through music."
"You can't have her take over your life."
"She's not, but she's alone in there. She has no one."
"Have you thought that maybe she deserves it. She's a criminal Sherlock. Even if you somehow manage to fix her to have her communicate with you and your family she is never getting out of Sherrinford."
"I know. Trust me, I know. I just need to be there for her. Make up for-"
"You have nothing to make up for. She killed your childhood best friend because she wanted attention. Mycroft said she was a genius to Newton proportion! She couldn't figure out another way?!"
"I should have made time for her. Imagine if it was Rosie."
"Rosie will never be like her!"
"Exactly because she has you and me and Molly Hooper and Mrs. H. and Harry and Clara and Greg and so many other people in her life who care about her! Euros only has me."
John shook his head moving to take Rosie from Sherlock once he saw the startled expression on her face from the yelling between the two of them and started shushing softly to her.
"I suggest we go to bed give us a chance to cool off."
"Its fine. It'll take her a while to go down. It's just your sister tried to blow me up and drown me an abandoned well. It's not something I can forgive easily. It's a sore subject and I understand she's your family-"
"I won't bring her up again."
"It's still fresh. Just give it time. You know if you need someone to talk to you could go to uh Molls."
Sherlock froze for a second, "Molly?"
"Yeah. While you ponder on that I'm going to take her to my room and see if she calms enough to go to sleep."
