There is a conundrum about the final scene of The Lying Detective. John Waton finally rescues Sherlock Holmes, and there seems to be a return of rapport ('Cock' Yeah') And yet back in Baker Street afterwards Watson is awkward, uncomfortable, wants to be anywhere else. So something must have happened between scenes. This happened.
To love a man means three things: to defend, protect and know him. To defend his imperfections, protect his individuality and honour his name.
(Princess Maleiha Bajunaid Candao)
Despite everything, he was tired, irritated, disillusioned, frustrated by life. He had spent hours with Culverton Smith – not so much interviewing, relishing the cut and thrust of his forensic skill in worming out the truth, but merely trying to slow down the rush of confession to something acceptable and human, to assimilate the man's pride and delight in his narcissistic chronicle of corpse creation – and even his patience had reached a limit.
Finally he had had to stop the flow of arrogant and entitled narrative to eat, drink, recharge his batteries, stand back from his repulsion of the man and to simply destress.
A major collar to be sure. A villain that had needed to be brought down. And had been. But this villain - 
was very weird indeed. And the destruction of Culverton Smith's benevolent ever smiling persona was going to cause repercussions in the worlds of corporate business, health care and charitable institutions for years to come, regardless of the length of the charge sheet, the court case and the sentencing. Why did he do it? And how did he get away with so much for so long? There would be enquiries, formal investigations, reports, seismic shifts
The thought had kept creeping in throughout the formal interview, however much he tried to push that thought away. Until he realised how ungracious such a thought was; but that, too, was Sherlock Holmes for you – help with one hand, hindrance with the other. He grinned to himself with resignation and an exasperated sort of affection.
The paperwork for this was going to be mountains high and horrendous, and to make things even more stressful, serving all day breakfast had finished in the canteen when he finally arrived there and he had had to make do with beans on toast; the tea had been stewed and there were no strawberry yoghurts left. He felt very hard done to indeed.
And just when he had decided the day could not get much worse – or better, depending upon the point of view - a visitor came silently to his door.
Detective Inspector Greg Lestrade looked up from frowning over the pile of new paperwork growing ever higher on his desk to register the tall slim man hovering just outside his office.
"Blimey! You look almost human. I hardly recognised you."
His expression went from puzzled to amused to perplexed and then amused again in seconds.
"So what's wrong? What's happened?" he asked, grinned suddenly, unexpectedly. "To turn up here is unusual enough. To come here dressed like a normal human being is unknown. Should I be worried?"
Mycroft Holmes, unusually casual in cord slacks and sweater and without even his umbrella to hide behind, looked entirely unlike his usual self. Younger, human, yet also oddly alien. As well as uncomfortable in his skin now, distracted yet determined. It was rather disturbing.
"That is entirely up to you," he said as neutrally as he was able, clamping down on the simmering anger that had been gathering since before he left 221B and now threatened to boil over.
"Sounds ominous," Lestrade remarked, pushing back into his chair and now looking up and giving Sherlock Holmes' older brother all his attention.A prickle of premonition worked long his spine.
"Could be." Two words in the usual slightly threatening but totally sardonic timbre.
Greg Lestrade heard the tone, the edge to the voice, and looked again. Saw the grime on the collar and cuffs of shirt and sweater, the slight edge of sweat on the forehead, felt the unusual hum of a rare yet very human tension in the man before him.
"Right. Well. You'd better come in, sit down, and tell me all about it."
He smiled up at the tense figure who came into the cramped stark office and approached the grey metal desk. That ingenuous smile of his was a tactic as much as a humanity, which although it always seemed so sweet in his handsome face, it was often deceptive, and usually reassuring to other people. Just not today.
"Thank you, but I prefer to stand."
That sounded more like the usual Mycroft Holmes. Lestrade was on firmer ground now. Professional visit then, despite the appearance.
"Please yourself. Out with it then."
"I have something for you." Mycroft Holmes waved the manila cardboard file in his right hand. "Well, to be exact….I have information. Information to exchange. For information."
"Obviously. But that sounds ….a bit ominous. Knowing you."
"Not necessarily ominous, Gregory. Let's just say that… fair exchange is not robbery when it can be of mutual benefit."
"OK. So what have you got there you consider so important it is of mutual benefit?"
"This…." He tapped the file with one hand, hugged it to himself with the other. "…is Sherlock's research. All his paperwork on the Culverton Smith's killings; as far as he has been able to locate and prove thus far."
"And how is he?" Meticulous research from Sherlock Holmes was nothing new, yet usually vital. He would have been surprised to have been offered anything less. So: the more important matter first. "When I saw him yesterday he looked….wrecked. Hurt. Beyond tolerance. Even for him."
The cold look he received was all the answer forthcoming. Mycroft Holmes simply continued speaking.
"He has uncovered twenty seven murders so far, clearly with the strong probability there are more. But I – we – feel these notes will go a long way in establishing the strength of your case against Culverton Smith and reducing your investigation time. Whatever he might be apparently confessing."
"Thank you. I suppose." Greg Lestrade, never as simple as his handsome, open features and easy going manner made him appear, paused for proper dramatic effect. "So what's the catch? What does he want in exchange?"
"Sherlock? Nothing. I, on the other hand…." He paused, presented the sort of smile anyone would describe as seeing on the face of a tiger. "In exchange for the results of his labours I want to know every detail about the attempt on Sherlock's life."
"Whoa, there. Hang on a minute, Mycroft. I am still interviewing Culverton Smith – we are just on a break.
"What you have in that folder may well be very interesting and helpful, even though he seems unable to stop talking now he's started….." he shook his head, still bemused at the smiling and effusive volubility of the serial murderer. "But I can't divulge details of the case. You, of all people, should know that."
"We have both signed the Official Secrets Act. And I do, in fact, outrank you in every way, Gregory. In every way."
"Which impresses me not at all. I am the investigating officer here, and what I say goes. Like it. Or lump it."
There were times when Lestrade could be implacable. This was one of them.
"Oh, really? Even though I have the advantage over you by possessing this very useful information?"
"You're not Sherlock. It's not your case. Why should I believe what you say?"
"For that very reason. Because I am not Sherlock. And because this information is invaluable to you."
"So why hasn't he brought it to me himself? You've never been his errand boy before."
The jibe hit home. Mycroft Holmes put his head back, peered down his nose at the detective and pursed his lips. Grim and offended, Lestrade thought with something childishly like satisfaction at scoring a point himself for a change. But did not relax his concentration. Mental chess was as much his field as Mycroft Holmes, and it appeared they both had secrets.
"Sherlock is….not well. At the moment." Mycroft admitted, granted a concession
"Yes. I know. I was at the hospital. In his side ward. After Culverton Smith tried to kill him."
"So you are aware how much this case has damaged him."
Lestrade remained silent and impassive. He did not need to make any response to that.
"Actually it is not Culverton Smith's attempt to kill Sherlock I am asking you about," Mycroft continued remorselessly. "I am talking about the assault before that. The cracked ribs. The bruises and grazes. The stitches over his left eyebrow, the damaged eye and swollen eye socket." Mycroft paused, meaning menace.
Lestrade was not about to allow himself to be menaced.
"I don't know anything about that. Not as a specific. Sherlock has not referred to it, nor has he included it in his list of Culverton Smith's offences."
"Stonewalling does not become you, Detective Inspector."
"Why would I be stonewalling, Mycroft? That assault you presume happened is simply not part of my remit."
"Surely you can make an educated guess?"
"No. Why should I? I am a bit busy at the moment. I'm not his nanny. I don't dog his every footstep, or know what he is doing every minute of every day. Not like you do. Try to do. He was high on drugs. Have you even considered that he might simply have fallen over? Yet here you are admitting to me that you don't know either? Are you just assuming the worst? Because it's Sherlock, and nothing is ever easy or simple?"
There was no answer except for a long hard stare that reminded Lestrade of the younger brother. And which made him think anew. And say so. Without wanting to give an inch. Mycroft Holmes was aggravating in a completely different league to his brother. And Lestrade was aggravated.
"Hang on: you are certain someone beat him up. But you don't know for sure. Or who beat him up, if anyone did. So you come here, making demands, expecting me to know and to tell you?" Lestrade asked. He lifted a quizzical, cynical eyebrow and watched the British Government frown again in something like frustration. "And expect to cut some sort of deal? Sherlock's murder file in exchange for what seems to be completely unrelated information?"
No reply except the faintest of nods.
"You're barking, Mycroft. Overstepping your authority." He sighed, clenched his fists on the desktop, mouth a grim line. "You do know that withholding evidence is a criminal offence?"
Detective Inspector Greg Lestrade was tired from his hours with Culverton Smith. Tired, and tetchy, and almost out of patience. And Mycroft Holmes taxed his patience at the best of times.
"Does Sherlock even know you are here? Trying to broker this pretty seedy deal, apparently on his behalf? " Lestrade shook his head in disbelief. "He wouldn't do that. He'd just give me the evidence. So he doesn't know you're doing this, does he?"
"My brother is not always the best judge of his own affairs. Not even in his own defence."
"What are you trying to say?"
"I must know what happened to him, and who attacked him. I will not have my brother hurt. Not like that. It is not in his interest. Nor mine."
Lestrade clicked his tongue against his teeth in impatience, shook his head. Recognised the words as a major admission from The Ice Man. Released a tension he did not know he had been carrying since Mycroft Holmes had entered his office..
"It is allowed to just be concerned about him, Mycroft," he offered, more kindly.
"Caring is not an advantage, Inspector. "
"Don't worry, Mycroft. I won't tell anyone" He smiled without humour.." But I still can't give you the answer you want. Whoever may have beat him up did so before I got involved. And you know what Sherlock is like; if he thinks something is no-one else's business, he won't tell anyone, least of all, me. Especially if he thinks it involves other people, or weakens him. Can't you deduce who did it – if anyone did it - for yourself?"
Mycroft Holmes moved uneasily; in anyone else they could be said to have squirmed.
"I may be guilty of…..leaping to the wrong conclusion. Wishful thinking."
"So run your thoughts past me."
"Hmn."
Mycroft Holmes took seven impatient paces across the small office, turned and paced back. Dropped elegantly down into the plastic chair opposite the man across the desk. Glared, made his decision.
"One must assume, from the timing and the proximity of the attack, to Culverton Smith's attempt at murder, that the two are linked somehow, " he began. His voice sounded harsh and irregular, as if unused to sharing his thought processes.
"Logical," Lestrade encouraged.
"Which limits the suspects somewhat. Not the nurse who brought Culverton Smith to Sherlock's attention in the first place; what would be the point? She certainly had not changed her mind about bringing the man to justice. The attack was far too fierce and concentrated for a woman anyway.
"Not Culverton Smith himself, He is, I am saddened to admit; far too short and weak, and too lily livered to attack anyone healthy and capable, and with tiny hands far too lily white to attack a man so much larger and stronger than himself, even when on a high….." he paused, thought of something perhaps relevant, returned to his monologue. "Smith likes to play God with the weak and the dying, not the strong and healthy.
"I can find no trace of Culverton Smith being attended by security or even a PA to do any of his physical dirty work for him. His profile indicates that he kills alone and likes it that way. Gets off on it, as they say. And I cannot believe any other nurse or doctor would attack Sherlock.
"So who does that leave? Thinking logically; who and when? Clearly and obviously, before Culverton Smith tried to poison and asphyxiate him in the side ward – but after he entered the hospital. That is a time frame to defy logic if not for the fact there is news footage of Culverton Smith greeting Sherlock outside the hospital. He may be far from his usual elegant self, but there is not a mark on him at that point.
"So the assault happened inside the hospital, hard as that is to believe.
"There were a lot of people about at that time; news reporters, personal assistants, hospital staff, nurses, even children. None of them would dream of attacking Sherlock Holmes. Nor would Smith's daughter Faith, who is in any case physically disabled and frail."
"Then there was television news footage about Sherlock being taken into hospital. About him attacking Culverton Smith," Mycroft said. "You have seen it? Then you will know Smith praised John Watson for saving him."
Lestrade nodded grimly. Yes, of course Mycroft would have seen that, damning and unspecific as it was.
"John has always been Sherlock's sanity clause; ballast and balance. And he can stop him or calm him with a word or even just a look. You've seen him do that time upon time," Lestrade pointed out. The words felt like betrayal, one way or another, not observation. But truth was his calling as well as his instinct. And he was at the point of subverting it.
"You are wearing rose tinted spectacles, Inspector," Mycroft said archly. "That was then. This is now. And recent events mean the doctor has not taken such a benevolent attitude to my brother for some time."
Lestrade had no reply to that. He knew the truth of that remark, and he knew the reason for the change of attitude. The death of Mary Watson.
"Doesn't mean it was John who beat him up…"
And fresh in his mind the memory that would not leave him, perhaps would never leave him, of the two of them in that dark little interview room earlier. John Watson. Bitter and benighted, belittling Sherlock Holmes, mouth twisted and eyes dark, full of disgust against everything and everyone but himself.
Looking down at his hands; flexing fingers, twisting them into fists. Grimacing against the scratchy pain of chipped and bloodied knuckles.
"I hit him Greg. Hit him hard….."
Lestrade took a deep, harsh and audible breath. Met Mycroft Holmes' eyes. And knew that he knew. Had read him, in the end, as easily as his brother could.
"Oh, dear, Detective Inspector. Friendship is a hard taskmaster, and for that reason something I never indulge in. It divides loyalties and creates a particular form of mental indigestion. Which you are clearly suffering from at this moment."
He smiled. Lestrade wished he wouldn't. It was an expression that did not look right on that ascetic face. And never boded well.
Then without warning Mycroft Holmes surged to his feet, tossed the manila folder onto the desk, directly and deliberately onto Lestrade's hands. Other papers already on the desk lifted and fluttered, dust rose.
"Thank you, Inspector. For confirming my first, instinctive conclusion. Not so much a puzzle as I had hoped. It had seemed far too obvious. John Watson it is then. John Watson who beat my brother to a pulp. John Watson who blames my brother for a death we all know was not his fault. Nor, ironically, even if it had been, was still a death thoroughly deserved."
"He's hurting, Mycroft…."
"Gregory, we are all 'hurting'." The sarcasm in that one word made Lestrade flinch. "It is part of the human condition. But some of us behave like adults."
"So now you are just giving me Sherlock's evidence against Smith? Just like that?"
"Of course. I was always going to. Doing the right thing, you know. To help put that despicable little toad safely behind bars for the rest of his natural life."
He drew himself up to his full height, shot his cuffs, looked suddenly unbearably smug.
So smug that Lestrade had to ask the question he did not especially want to hear the answer to.
"So what about John?"
Mycroft Holmes turned his head very slowly and smiled again, but only a little.
"John who? Oh, John Watson? That insignificant little cypher? I am, in the crudest terminology so even he would understand….if he has any, which I doubt, I shall have his bits on a trowel. Thank you for our little chat." He crossed the room to the door. Five steps. Opened the door, paused for a typically dramatic exit. "Good day, Inspector. So pleasant to see you again."
And left, closing the door gently behind him.
Greg Lestrade looked at the space he left behind him. Glanced down at the folder, but did not open it. Did not pick up his mobile. Did not to anything but look at the opposite wall for quite some time.
o0o0o
He had not intended to return to Baker Street, but still found himself going back. He needed to check. On his brother's health and safety. His temperance. His sanity, even. Mrs Hudson, he knew, would keep an eye on Sherlock, make sure he was at least offered something to eat. Did not have to express the fear to her that he might turn back to the drugs for relief and oblivion. Could raid one of his many secret caches about the flat.
Because she knew all about that. If he focussed on it, he might be concerned about how much she knew about the clandestine world of drug culture. Sweeties, she called them. Little treats. Soothers, Whatever. He knew she had her own history involving the world of drugs, knew more than he did, and probably even more than Sherlock. He preferred not to consider any details.
Before long, he thought she would have a rota going, of friends prepared to put themselves on the line to make sure Sherlock did not relapse, to keep him company, distracted, entertained. He could never quite believe how it was such an anti social and self proclaimed sociopath as his brother managed to acquire friends. But he had to be sure….
"Why are you back?"
The question lacked it's usual hard edge. And Mycroft felt a spike of anxiety as he entered 221B to see his little brother was still in the grey Bauhaus chair.
"Have you actually stirred yourself since I left?"
The only answer was a vague flap of a wrist.
"How do you feel?"
"Probably as good as I look."
"Oh, very droll."
"Hmn."
"Would a cup of tea help?"
"Why, are you proposing to demean yourself and make it?"
"Well; of course."
Finally Sherlock Holmes opened his eyes. The left eye was still bloodshot; the stitches over the eyebrow looked rough and irritated; rather like it's owner, Mycroft thought inconsequentially as he took in all the details.
Grey skin, auburn stubble, hunched posture that spoke loudly of broken ribs, a fine film of sweat despite the coolness of the room. Grazed cheeks. Twitching fingers with filthy split nails. Drug withdrawal.
But he was not the only person in the room taking notice.
"You are angry about something. I assume you took the evidence folder to Lestrade. So you must be angry with Lestrade. Did you try to strongarm him about something? And he wouldn't wear it? You wanted information on the background to the Culverton Smith case, then? "
His brother did not reply.
"You really should know better than to try to lean on Lestrade. He's a good man. A decent man. He doesn't like conspiracies. Or outsiders trying to pull rank."
"Yes. I think I have noticed."
"What did you want to know about? What has made you angry if not Lestrade? That I got into this case without you knowing or interfering? The reality of Mary Morston's stupid challenge in the first place? Not knowing how long I was back on drugs, and how much I have taken? How much below par I am at the moment? Oh: does that simply mean you need me for your own selfish ends, and my current state disrupts your plans for my utility?"
"Stop it." The British Government fought for impassivity, not wanting to alert his brother to his real fear and his target to ensure his brother's defence: John Watson. "Always so dismissive…." He began.
"Yeah. Wonder who I learnt that from?"
Mycroft Holmes resisted the anxiety he felt. On the surface the banter seemed the same; but he could tell his brother was exhausted, depressed, bone weary, The edge that was always there between them was no less. But neither of their hearts were in it at that moment. And that worried him more than he could ever say.
"Stop it, Sherlock. I am merely concerned about you. And if you could see yourself at the moment – how others see you – you would understand why."
"Expressing concern, Mycroft? Really? I must be worse than I thought."
"You nearly died! And more than once! Can you not just ….." the irate tone faltered as he stepped closer. "….not keep doing this?"
"Doing what?"
"Nearly killing yourself."
"And why would I stop doing that? Because I have something to live for?"
"You told Smith you didn't want to die."
"Because that was what he wanted to hear."
"Brother…."
"Stop it. Just stop."
He wobbled to his feet, waved away the hand that automatically came out to help him rise.
"Had enough of this." He drew himself erect with an effort, put a hand onto the mantelpiece to steady himself, and started walking across the room moving from support to support; armchair, side table, door frame….." I am going to the bathroom," he said with slow, deliberate dignity. "And when I come out I expect a bit of peace and quiet. So I expect you to be gone."
Mycroft Holmes bit back a reply. Turned away to the window so his brother could not see the rictus of pain on his face, and took a deep, settling breath.
Stepped closer to the window as he heard the bathroom door open and close. And for several seconds he laid his temple against the cool glass, willing himself into calmness and patience. To not leave as instructed, to find a way to explain why he intended staying until his mind was at rest. If only because of Mrs Hudson's planned rota of care….
He looked up as if seeking inspiration, and then down, watching traffic and pedestrians pass below him on Baker Street, his mind elsewhere.
Alone in the room and with no façade to maintain for once, he let his mind wander a little; to try and understand why this case had disturbed him so much.
It was not as if Sherlock had ever held back in committing to a case. What had made this one different was because it had been a challenge by a dead woman, offered without any chance of evasion or comeback. That Sherlock had accepted a challenge he could have ignored, taken it so seriously, and had frozen him out of everything. That he had plunged back into his old life of drugs and disaster management in full awareness of what he was doing….yet had still not cared about the degree to which he was compromising his mental as well as his physical health by doing so.
It all took Mycroft back to past times of horror, to Sherlock's days on the run, on the streets, on drugs and false highs, of nightmares and danger nights and demented days. He did not want either of them to go back to that, or anything like it. Not again.
He would fight tooth and nail – would fight Sherlock himself if he had to – to make sure those days did not return. This case had brought them both too close to that as it was.
John Watson was so dominant in his thoughts that when he looked down and saw the doctor on the pavement beneath the window, for a moment he could not believe his eyes. He peered closer, leaning a hand on the window frame, blinked several times.
John Watson was still there. Getting out of a black cab, clutching two plastic supermarket carriers, turning to pay the driver, swapping his bags from one hand to the other, and crossing to the big black door.
Without any thought other than anger and protection and a need to 
 he was out of the room and down the stairs two at a time to cannon into John Watson as he entered the hall and closed the door behind him.
"Oof! Mycroft! What the hell…."
Taken by surprise, still turning from closing the door, he dropped both bags, which landed on his feet with a crash. And so he stumbled over them, clutching at Mycroft Holmes in a reflex action. Who pushed him away, hard against the wall.
"What are you doing here? You're not wanted here. Go away!" He could feel his voice rising to an emotional level he never, ever, used and barely knew existed within himself.
"Mrs Hudson rang. Said he needed food and….."
"Go away. Sherlock doesn't need you here. I don't want you here. Go!"
He shoved John Watson away. And John Watson shoved back.
"Bloody hell, man! What are you doing? Have you gone mad?"
"Not yet!"
The hiss of a reply rasped with intent into John Watson's ear.
He shoved the other man hard again, towards the door; a physical order to leave, not a hint. This time John Watson shoved back harder. And at that point Mycroft Holmes lost it.
There was a short ugly flurry of action. A sharp elbow into a throat, a double handed strike into kidneys in retaliation and self defence.
"Stop it, Mycroft! What the fuck has got into you?" John Watson was panting with both surprise and unaccustomed effort.
"Dish it out but can't take it? Really, Doctor?"
"Mycroft! Stoppit!"
They ended up, both breathing hard, pressed against the wall. John Watson with his back crammed against the wallpaper, one of the taller man's feet braced painfully against his shin, rendering him immobile, leaning in with a forearm rammed tight against his throat, while John Watson's hands clutched convulsively against the relentless pressure in danger of throttling him.
"Why should I? You did more than this to Sherlock." Mycroft Holmes' voice was almost guttural, no longer sardonic or sarcastic, but full of nothing but deathly intent.
"Good God. Mycroft!"
"Just protecting my baby brother. Not keen on like for like treatment?"
"Oh. Bloody hell. I…." He swallowed hard; struggled, turned pale. "Come on, ease up. You're throttling me."
"Oh good. So you now understand that just because I prefer to avoid legwork does not mean I cannot do it…?"
"Give over, you mad bastard!" John Watson was also shouting now; on the edge of panic, of understanding Mycroft Holmes' power as well as his intent.
"This is about teaching you a lesson. And give a warning. Don't ever touch Sherlock like that ever again. Or I will kill you."
They stood locked in a tense tableau, not an impasse but a power standoff, neither man willing to give way. One on the verge of something dangerous and decisive, the other on the edge of a cliff; and both too aware of each other's determination.
The tension in both was palpable, froze them into place for a moment as they dragged breath while collecting their wits to decide what to do next when a voice roared down the stairs from above them.
"For God's sake! Stop! Stop this now!"
Poised at the bottom of the stairs they turned as one towards Sherlock Holmes, who was standing on the half landing above them.
Blue silk dressing gown, fresh grey shirt and dark trousers beneath. Still unshaven, hair messy. Face sweaty and puffy in the bright revealing light from the landing window. Eyes hard icy chips, voice implacable.
"Explain yourselves!" he demanded, not bothering to hide his anger. But neither his brother nor his friend responded immediately.
He raised his head, peered down at them. At his brother.
"What are you doing here? I told you to go."
"I was about to. And then I saw this one arrive." Mycroft's voice was back to it's arch best. Neither apologetic nor offering excuses.
"So?"
"I wasn't letting him near you. Risk him attack you again. Especially while you are…."
"Are what?"
"Weakened. Not at your best."
"I will be the judge of that. Not you."
He shifted slightly. Braced one arm against the windowsill. The light through the green stained glass gave him a grave and ghostly appearance.
"Let him go, Mycroft. He's not going to hurt me." He paused. Slid storm grey hooded eyes sideways. "Are you, John?"
There was arrogance and challenge in his voice, and both heard it.
"No. No, I'm not." The denial was flat, and offered a second too late. He heard his own hesitation, tugged Mycroft Holmes' arm down from his throat. "Mrs Hudson said you needed some shopping. I thought…So I…." He quirked an ironic smile, despite his position. "…brought some shopping."
"How kind." Mycroft Holmes could not resist the dry comment. "I suppose."
"Shut up, Mycroft."
"I'm not letting him up there with these bags unless I am there too. I need to be sure you are safe. And I don't trust him."
"Oh, for….."
"You are not safe in his company, Sherlock! Look at the damage you are carrying, child. And 
did that to you! Your friend? I don't think so!"
John Watson slumped against the wall. And for a second Sherlock Holmes slumped too before pushing himself up, tall and dominant again.
"You are looking at this from the wrong perspective, Mycroft. You've had your say. And more. So now you listen to me." He paused, as if gathering himself together for a huge effort, for combat.
"John Watson is a doctor and a soldier. Admirable, in his own way. Beyond that, he is also stupid and utterly predictable."
He drew a hard breath, and looked down at the man who was not his brother with something like disdain and distaste.
"And I know you have always thought that, Mycroft, so I am telling you nothing new."
Mycroft Holmes gave a brief nod of agreement. And John Watson looked up silently, looked stricken.
"Remember: when I leapt to my death from the rooftop at Bart's, we didn't tell John the truth because his naked grief, his transparent nature, would convince Moriarty's snipers and anyone else that I was truly dead. By the same logic, I needed his open disgust at me going down into drugs. He didn't know that was my plan to save him from himself, just as Mary asked me to."
He paused, ran a hand across his face.
"It became clear to me Smith used his special access to the hospital he had funded to find and despatch his victims. So to get close enough to catch him, I had to become a victim myself.
"To be in a position to save John I had to not only catch the bad guy – Smith – but also make John save me from the bad guy. Which meant I had to take John on the journey with me, show how debased I had become, make him so repelled he would strike out at me.
"Nothing would disgust John as much as me going back to drugs; and I had to do that with a will, to force him back into my orbit. Mrs Hudson did that for me. She has so many unheralded skills."
He shook his head and smiled with genuine amusement and appreciation of his landlady.
"Doing that would kick him out of his idiotic cycle of grief and blame. By then having to save me. From Smith, from myself. And thus save himself from himself."
"If John wasn't so stupid and so predictable I could never have made my plan work. John had to be lured back to my side, if only because he was appalled by my drug taking and was backed into a corner. His disdain for me had to be obvious to the world; he can never disguise that sort of thing."
"Oi! I'm right here, you know!" John Watson spoke up in protest. A steely glare came and went. The protest was ignored.
"Bless him."
The last two words were spoken with irony and utter contempt. And he looked down and watched John Watson's face change, barely noticing how Mycroft Holmes slowly withdrew his arm from the doctor's throat. Although remaining a physical barrier between them.
"Knowing John so well, I could predict all the right buttons to press. I also knew that when I completely lost it he would defend Smith from me. Not me from Smith. He has always fought for the underdog, which would be Smith in this case. Me being younger and stronger. And despised. And that vicious reaction would allow Smith to trap me in his hospital and dispatch me before I exposed his guilt to the world. He could not kill me in public, with any chance of witnesses.
"So I also needed to record his action. The only hiding place I could think of in which to place a recorder Smith would not find on me was in something coming in from outside; John's walking stick. An incongruous bitter final gift – if you could call it that – and nothing to do with me." There was a sudden cold and twisted smile that could have been pure Mycroft. Reflective, sardonic, objective. "As if."
"So John had to be appalled by me. Write me off. Present me with his old aluminium walking stick – that had spent years in my umbrella stand - as some sort of symbolic final farewell and dismissal.
"Whether I lived or died did not matter. Smith would not suspect John's walking stick or check it, having already found my coat pockets full of recording devices. A feint, naturally. To allow in a Trojan horse."
"Naturally," his brother echoed.
"So with the walking stick in place beside me, Smith would be recorded killing me, whether he succeeded or not. Whether or not John bothered to come to my rescue. That was one thing I could not guarantee. Either way, the stick would be returned to John and he would discover it's secret."
That was…one hell of a risk," John Watson remarked, bemused.
"Perhaps. Perhaps not. I was banking on your childishness, your peevish predictability. Stupidity. You did not let me down."
He looked back at his brother.
"Whatever happened, John's input was vital. I could trust his hatred of me, his negativity, his anger, his readiness to use his fists when cornered to protect the underdog or the victim – and because of what and how I set things in motion, he eventually saw Smith as both.
"Do you understand now, Mycroft? I manipulated John to attack me. Needed him to hurt me. To deliver me into Smith's control. My fate in his hands. Culverton Smith's prize." He hesitated a moment, then went on:
"I also hoped John's chance to finally take his grief and anger out on me would defuse the danger he was becoming to himself. After all, he was entitled to hurt me. After all…I killed his wife."
There was a brief and appalled silence.
"No you didn't. I saw. You did your best to save her." Mycroft Holmes was shouting up the stairs.
His brother shrugged,
"Whatever. The end result was still the same."
He leant heavily on the arm supporting his weight on the windowsill. The lengthy speech and the concentration had sapped his strength. Did not notice that for the briefest of moments pale blue eyes met speedwell blue ones; a united concern for Sherlock Holmes – despite everything – and at what they were witnessing.
"I'm going to sit down now. I feel….." he waved a hand, did not bother to finish the sentence. "Go home, Mycroft. You've defended me quite enough. And now you know."
He waited. Waited until his brother moved awkwardly away from John Watson. Gestured vaguely.
"Are you sure? What about….?"
John Watson rushed in to fill the space.
"I've the shopping to take up and put away. I promised Mrs Hudson. If I don't…." he tried a smile, and found he could actually manage to produce one. "If I don't she will probably shoot me with Sherlock's gun. And if she does: then I will have deserved it."
It was something between an apology and a statement of faith.
"See? Go home Mycroft. I am fine. No-one is going to hurt me."
"You will text? If you need me?"
"When do I ever?"
"I will ring you later, then." He stood straighter now. Shot his cuffs, Looked levelly at John Watson. "And I daresay I shall also see you later. At some point."
"Not if I see you first."
No-one laughed or remarked on the cliché.
"I could say the same thing. I am not happy, but I shall leave you both, for now. I daresay you understand each other in some peculiar fashion. " Mycroft Holmes opened the door, letting in a breeze and the sound of passing traffic.
The silence he left behind him was deafening, and held for too long.
"Well then: the shopping," John Watson eventually said neutrally, stooping to pick up the two bags.
When he looked up again Sherlock Holmes was sitting slumped on the top step, elbows on his knees, hands hanging empty, head bowed.
He walked slowly up the stairs, expecting the younger man to speak. But there were no words. As he drew level a hand lifted as if to stop him, almost as if in supplication.
John Watson, not knowing what to do or say, ignored it.
"You know why….why I said….."
The words from the bent head were so quiet he almost thought he had imagined them.
"Humiliated, Sherlock."
"Better than dead."
John Watson did not reply or even pause as he brushed past. Sherlock Holmes sat where he was. And let him go.
At the top of the stairs a door slapped back against the wall as if pushed angrily. Cupboard doors opened and slammed shut. Bags rustled. The fridge door squeaked as it swung wide and closed again. And then there was silence.
Mentally and physically exhausted, depressed beyond measure, still trembling from drug withdrawal and reaction to danger and anger, Sherlock Holmes had pushed himself beyond his own limits over the past two days. So now he just sat, and lost track of time.
Time passed, and the silence within 221B lengthened.
He wondered if John Watson was sitting at the kitchen table, as exhausted and dislocated as he was. Or whether he was angry at being so disparaged and insulted, at being physically attacked by Mycroft Holmes, shamed by allowing the desk bound authoritarian to snatch the upper hand.
Protection and defence systems came in many forms. And none were effortless or perfect.
Stopping a serial killer was worth effort and sacrifice. He wondered if John Watson would see that and understand. Or hate and resent him even more.
He could not speculate. He did not have the energy or even the clarity of thought. So he just sat where he was. Waited for energy to return. Waited for John Watson to make his mind up about what to do next. Waited for him to leave, never to return. To brush past on his way down the stairs just as he had going up.
The expectation and resignation were so ingrained that when the sound came he was not expecting, had not anticipated…and was slow to register, to react.
A simple word. Just one syllable.
"Tea."
It was neither a question nor an offering. Just a word. Spoken without feeling or inflexion. Deliberately so.
Sherlock Holmes opened his mouth to answer. Thought better of it. Levered himself slowly and painfully to his feet. Turned and made his way back up the stairs.
END
