John staggered into the kitchen at 3am, his hair tousled and his eyes half shut. It was a Sunday morning, and Rosie was staying with Molly, so John had been enjoying a night of peaceful sleep. But he had been awoken, to the beautiful yet tortures sound of the violin. John didn't understand how something that was normally so extraordinary, could sound so horrible at 3am… He clutched at a chair and squinted into the lightened sitting room. And there he was. Sherlock was standing in his velvet red dressing gown, turned to the window, violin in one hand, and the bow in the other. He was composing again.. At 3am… John sighed and walked towards Sherlock, attempting to find a way to tell him to stop, but without waking the entire street.. However, upon passing the legs of the table, he stubbed his toe and let out a small shout of pain, collapsing onto his chair and clutching at his toe. Sherlock kept playing, but turned around with an endearing smirk on his face. The pain in John's toe lessened after a few seconds, and he placed his now cold foot back in the warm confines of its slipper. Sherlock turned back to the window and finished his song. John shut his eyes and let himself get swallowed up into the music. Images began flashing across his mind: Himself and Mary dancing at their wedding, him holding Rosie for the first time and watching her small hand clutch at his finger, his and sherlocks first meal together after Mary's death… the images went on and on, until suddenly, he was awake again, but this time it was his alarm, and a violin that awoke him.
He was back in bed, wrapped up in his duvet, a cup of steaming tea on his table, and the sun just poking its head out from behind the landscape of London. He pushed off his duvet and climbed out of bed, rubbing his eyes like a small child. He switched on his bedside lamp, and saw a note from someone in long, spidery handwriting. It bore the words "morning sleeping beauty x". John smiled to himself and took a sip of the tea. It was perfect, strong with no sugar. He pushed his feet into his slippers, slipped his arms through the sleeves of his dressing gown and headed downstairs to the living room, where Sherlock sat at the table.
Mrs Hudson was standing by the hob, stirring away at some porridge.
"Hello dear" She said to John, without turning her head. "Porridge?" she continued, labelling two spoonfuls into a bowl and placing it in front of Sherlock, who immediately put down the clump of brown hair he had been examining and shoved a gulp-full into his mouth.
"Yes please Mrs Hudson" John replied, giving her a cursory hug on the way to his seat.
"Well just this time, I'm your landlady not your housekeeper dear" She muttered, handing another bowl. He thanked her, picking up a newspaper and beginning to read it. After flicking through it and discovering there was nothing more interesting than a man breaking England's record for most Weetabix balanced on his head, John put down the magazine, and turned to Sherlock, who had finished his porridge and was back to examining the hair.
"Who's 
 that?" John asked, slightly revolted.
"Mycroft's" Sherlock replied, elongating the 'y' and placing the hair under the lens of his microscope adjusting the lighting. "And may I ask why… you are..ugh… examining your brother's hair?" John asked, taking another bite of porridge.
"To prove to him that I was right in saying that he is dying it, and that hair cannot stay brown for his entire life" Sherlock answered, taking a sip of John's tea.
"Of course… why not" John muttered to himself, finishing his porridge and putting his and sherlocks bowls in the dishwasher. Mrs Hudson had returned downstairs, and they heard the vacuum cleaner start up.
20 minute later, John was back in the kitchen, fully washed and dressed and ready to work. Sherlock was not back yet, so John sat down in his chair and stared around at the room. He saw Sherlock's violin lying by the window, and wondered if he'd be any good at playing it. He stood up and picked it up, placing the front on his left shoulder, and raising the bow dramatically. Then, with the sweeping movements he had seen Sherlocks use so many times before, he lightly drew the bow across one of the strings. Instead of the beautiful, light sound he was used to hearing, all that came out was a horrible screeching sound, like nails on a chalkboard. He winced and tried placing his index finger one the string he was playing, to see if it made a difference. It didn't. He closed his eyes, and tried to picture Sherlock playing. He tried to move his left hand back and forth, quickly, as he had seen the other man do, but all that happened was that his hand holding the bow moved as well, somehow worsening the sound evermore. As he "played", his eyes remained shut and he was facing the window, so he did not see Sherlock approaching from behind, and reaching round him to adjust his grip. John jumped as he felt the man's breath tickle the side of his face. He dropped the violin and sun rounded, his eyes wide. Sherlock chuckled.
"I was trying to help you change your position. You need to stand taller and widen your shoulders but keep them low." Sherlock told him, picking up the fallen violin and demonstrating. "Like so"
John nodded, placing the instrument back onto his shoulders.
"Good" Sherlock muttered, nodding. "Now, slide your left hand further down the neck of the violin, and try to stop your thumb from curling too much around it. And make sure your hand is aligned with the neck, at the point where your fingers… start" Sherlock trailed off and his voice got deeper, suddenly aware he was basically hugging John. He blushed, releasing his grip, and averting his eyes. John, oblivious, was still trying to keep his thumb from slipping.
"What next?" John asked, taking hold of the bow.
"Well… next you need to take the…uh… bow and…uh… hold it near the frog…" Sherlock told him, sliding John's down to the bow handle.
The next few hours ensued, with John slowly and with much difficulty, learning the first few lines of the famous song "Hot cross buns". When lunchtime came, They finally replaced the violin, and Sherlock informed him that it takes most people a good 15 years to fully master the violin.
"How long did it take you?"John asked, taking out some hummus and breadsticks. Sherlock paused before saying sheepishly,
"15 days.." John sighed and chewed thoughtfully upon a breadstick.
"I'm not sure violin is really my thing…if you know what I mean… maybe I'll try piano instead.." Sherlock wasn't listening, but was staring dazedly at John, as the latter scraped away at the last of the hummus. "Sherlock? Sherlock? You're doing that thing again…." John called, waving his hands in the air.
"Sorry?" Sherlock was jerked back to reality. "Yes sorry… no I would love some tea, thank you". John frowned and said "I… didn't offer you any tea…"
"Really? Oh well, some tea would be amazing right now, thanks" Sherlock called as he walked towards the sofa and lay down, curling up, his back to the rest of the room, his mind reeling with thoughts of John, tea and the tune of Vivaldi's concerto in A minor….
