"I'm telling you, sir, there's something weird about the whole situation." Lestrade sighs, overworked and overtired as usual.
"What's weird is that you're obsessing over it." He tells Donovan, which only earns him a scoff as the woman crosses her arms over her chest.
"Obsessing? Cautious, more like." She retorts with a frown as she scans the crowd standing behind the police tape.
"Cautious of what exactly?" Lestrade asks in confusion.
"Motive. Clearly the freak wants us to believe he's married-"
"He is. We all met his husband." Lestrade interrupts, thinking back to the reunion of Sherlock Holmes and John Watson. That had been the talk of the NSY when it had happened, and even now, a whole week later, people were still creating rumors and speculation over it.
And it seemed Donovan was one of them.
"We met some random bloke who claims to be the freak's husband. He wasn't even wearing a ring." She corrects, and thinking back, Lestrade remembers that to be the case. When the man in the suit - Mycroft, Sherlock had said - had told them that Sherlock and John were married, Lestrade couldn't help but look to their fingers for proof. However, where Sherlock's ring had been present - as it always had been - John's had been noticeably barren.
"He had also just gotten back from Afghanistan. MIA, remember? Maybe he lost it." Lestrade guesses, but Donovan only looks all the more unconvinced at that.
"And how convenient is that? That his husband had been missing all this time, and that's why we haven't seen or heard from him." Donovan says with a raised eyebrow.
"Whats your point, Sergeant Donovan?" Lestrade asks almost impatiently, too tired to bother figuring out where the woman was going with this.
"I think the freak's trying to con us." She tells him in a hushed voice, almost conspiratorially.
"And what, exactly, would I be conning you out of? The last few brain cells you imbeciles possess? Believe me when I say I don't want them." They don't jump, but it's a near thing as Sherlock sweeps past them and heads straight for the body lying dead on the pavement. Close behind is John Watson himself, looking mild mannered and at ease despite the murder scene only a few feet away.
"Sherlock, you can't bring your husband to a crime scene." Lestrade says in exasperation, wondering why that is something he has to clarify.
"Why not? John is far more qualified than the likes of you and your team to assist me on cases." Sherlock says dismissively, not even bothering to raise his eyes from the body as he examines it. Before Lestrade can attempt arguing further, John speaks up.
"Sorry to be a bother. I can leave if you need." The apologetic tone is paired with a pleasant smile, and its not for the first time that Lestrade is wondering how Sherlock managed to snag a man that seemed so calm in contrast to Sherlock's eccentricities.
"No- Well, I mean-"
"He means you can stay. John, come here and tell me what you see." Sherlock interrupts next, finally turning to look at John with an unimpressed look.
"Sherlock-"
"Lestrade, by the time you finish arguing your point, we will have seen all there is to see and will be solving your case. It is in your best interest to allow John to accompany me." Sherlock argues before Lestrade can even make his point.
"Now hold on a minute, freak. That isn't up to you to decide. He's a civilian-"
"And previously he was a soldier, and now he's a doctor - well, I should say he's 
 been a doctor. That's never changed. Far too 
, you." Sherlock says, spitting the word, caring out as if it were a defect. John doesn't seem to take offense though as he smiles at the man.
"One of us has to be. And I haven't
 been a doctor." John denies, though he knows its weak point to be arguing.
"Hm, true. You were always a fighter first. However, it begs the question, if you'd had the opportunity, would you have first turned to medicine?" Sherlock asks, seemingly forgetting his audience - both dead and alive.
"I don't see why not." The doctor answers with a shrug as he stands. A grin forms on Sherlock's face as he sees all he needs in the man's posture and turns.
"A four, Lestrade. You couldn't even find me a six." He admonishes as he begins walking off down the pavement.
"Huh?" Lestrade asks, dumbfounded and not following the conversation at all.
"Nice to see you again." John says in farewell rather than answer any of the DI's questions.
There's a moment of brief silence as Lestrade stares in confusion at the two as they duck under the police tap and continue on down the street without a care. Eventually the silence is disrupted by Donovan.
"I'm telling you, sir. They're messing with us."
The next time the Met sees Sherlock Holmes and John Watson, the two were coming in to give their statements after somehow having been involved in a bank robbery.
"This is precisely why I don't bother with the mundane, John." Sherlock is saying as he fills the form out petulantly.
"You don't need to convince me any further, Sherlock. Rest assured, I'll get the shopping on my own next time." John mutters, clearly annoyed. It's the first time Lestrade sees the man anything but happy and he feels better in knowing that even Watson seems to have his limits.
Though, most anyone would be annoyed at their husband for purposely becoming a hostage in a bank robbery.
"I don't know why you bothered, honestly. You've always done the shopping. What made you think this time I would feel any different about it?" Sherlock continues badgering.
And that alone makes Lestrade fight off a sympathetic wince for the doctor. The poor guy has only just gotten back from whatever atrocities he's faced in war, and he has to fight with his husband to do a little shopping. It's beyond insensitive and Lestrade is about to say as much - because as cold and prickly as Sherlock is, he should at least make an effort with his husband - but a heavy sigh from Watson stops him. With a brief look at the ceiling as if he's looking for strength, he turns to look at Sherlock blandly.
"Maybe I thought after all this time you would have learned something about functioning like a normal human being." He answers.
"
" Sherlock scoffs.
"Yes, I know. Clearly I was wrong." John agrees, seeming to find the humor in the situation now as his annoyance slowly eases. Lestrade blinks, and for the first time begins to think that Watson may be being taken advantage of here in this relationship.
"Hm, yes." The two are quiet now, and Lestrade tries his best to get some work done. He still can't help but feel that Sherlock is being too insensitive, but there's nothing he can do that won't result in scorn and his secrets - whatever little of them he still has left - being shouted aloud for the entire division to hear.
That doesn't mean, however, that he'll remain silent forever. If Sherlock truly doesn't seem to be treating John Watson well, Lestrade will be the first to call him out on it. For now, he doesn't know the two of them well enough to make that call, and that goes double for their relationship. The only frame of reference Lestrade has for how Sherlock acts in a relationship he cares for is the one between him and his landlady, and even that is one that he has only seen glimpses of.
Realizing that he's falling behind in his work due to these thoughts, the DI attempts to refocus himself but finds quickly that he can't help but be captivated by the couple. It was such an unusual pairing, not to mention how strange it was to think Sherlock would marry anybody - or that anybody would put up with him. It was fascinating to witness the dynamic between the two of them.
Even if that was at the expense of more paperwork.
"Oh." It's not a loud exclamation. There isn't any urgency or dramatics behind the word. It's just a simple utterance of sound that Lestrade all but ignores.
"Hm?" John hums distractedly in question, not bothering to look up from his paper as he continues writing.
"We need to go." That catches Lestrade's attention as he looks up from his keyboard.
"Sherlock, you have to finish your statement." He tells him warily. On one hand, it's hard enough as is to get the man to sit and write the damned things; but on the other, there's a growing unease in the air despite Sherlock's complete lack of urgency.
"Sherlock?" John asks, clearly seeing something that Lestrade couldn't as he becomes tense.
"John, I believe my experiment may be eating through our kitchen table at this moment. Quite possibly the floor as well." The matter-of-fact way that Sherlock says this leaves John and Lestrade blinking at him for far too long, but eventually the doctor is the one to move first.
Slowly, calmly, the man sets his statement aside along with his pen, before standing and wiping his hands on his trousers. He turns to look at Sherlock with a lack of emotion Lestrade envies in dire situations.
"Right. And how long do we have until Mrs. Hudson is throwing our things on the pavement?" He asks with an arched eyebrow and a no nonsense tone. Sherlock leans back in his chair, still unbothered, and steeples his fingers to his mouth.
"Thirty minutes if the table is still intact. Fifteen otherwise" Sherlock determines with a furrowed brow.
"I'm sorry Lestrade, we'll have to come in again later to finish these. Come on Sherlock." As John stalks out of the room, Lestrade can only watch as Sherlock gets up to follow. There's no time to argue, no time to get up and chase them down, and Lestrade can only sit and wonder once more about how in the world the two had ended up together.
Every interaction with the married couple only left Lestrade believing Donovan's outrageous theory more and more.
Lestrade and Donovan are walking back to New Scotland Yard after having gone out to get some food during their lunch break rather than stay cooped up at their desks. The fresh air had been nice, and it was a rather mild day compared to usual. It was refreshing and much needed after the stressful few days he'd been dealing with.
"Maybe this whole thing is like rent-a-date." Blinking, Lestrade slowly lowers his coffee from his lips and gives Donovan a speculative look.
"What?" He asks in confusion, wondering if he was misconstruing things and giving Donovan the wrong idea.
"Not 
 I'm talking about the freak and his tag-along!" She exclaims irritably, which is understandable, he guesses, as he raises his hands in a bid for peace.
"Right, right. Yeah. Sorry." He appeases with a few nods to cement his understanding, only he realizes quickly after that he still doesn't understand at all.
"Actually, no, I don't think I get it..." He admits, to which his Sergeant gives an exasperated sigh and raises her eyes heaven-ward.
"Their relationship. You know, the one that can't possibly be real because no one on this Earth would willingly marry someone like the freak." She explains in a similar pain staking way that Sherlock does when he feels they're all being idiots again. Which is every time he talks to them, really.
For some reason Lestrade doesn't think Donovan would appreciate that comparison, and so he smartly keeps his mouth closed and takes another sip from his cup instead.
"I was just thinking, maybe it's a rent-a-date situation." She reiterates.
"What's rent-a-date?" The DI asks, thinking that the name is rather self-explanatory but never having heard of such a thing before until now.
"Ever heard of that American film
? Some girl hires a guy to go to her sister's wedding with her and has him pretend to be her boyfriend. Or, at least, that's what I think it's about. One of my friends made me watch it with her, but I was more interested in- well, that's not the point. Point is, what if that's what Holmes is up to?" She asks conspiratorially, her voice lowering as she leans in closer.
"You think he's paid Watson to pretend to be his husband?" He asks for clarification, finding the whole idea far-fetched and more effort than it's worth in his opinion.
"Wouldn't put it past him is all I'm saying. I mean, the mans a psychopath. Probably has to pay extra for having him show up at crime scenes, though." She jokes, nudging him with her elbow as she grins at him.
"Why, though?" Lestrade asks in confusion, wondering what Donovan believes Sherlock's motivation would be to orchestrate something like that.
"Who knows? The man is crazy, which is explanation enough. maybe he just wants to pull one over on us; or maybe he wants to prove he's not some sad, single, lonely guy. Either way, I'm not buying it. There's no way someone like Watson married the freak." Donovan says firmly. Seeing that the woman won't be swayed, Lestrade shakes his head and drains the last of the coffee from his cup before chucking it into a rubbish bin that they're passing by.
"Why not? Watson seems like a nice guy." Lestrade says, meaning his words. What little he's seen of him, Watson seems an alright guy. For putting up with Sherlock, he has to be pretty amazing.
He's also still a little worried that Donovan is obsessing over this whole thing despite her denial of such a thing.
"Exactly. He's a nice guy; kind, patient, calm - it's too good. Too perfect. Nobody's so... mild-mannered. Especially when faced with the freak? I don't think so." At this, Lestrade shrugs, not sure what else there is to say on the subject when Donovan is already this convinced.
"I don't know what you want me to do about it." Lestrade says, far too tired for it to only be half-past nine in the morning.
"Tell him to do it himself! We're not his servants to order around." Anderson sneers, waving a paper in the air for emphasis but only serving to tire the overworked DI further.
"As if that will have any effect. If you don't want to do it, then don't." Lestrade says with a shrug, wondering why this was even an issue being brought to him in the first place.
"And have him insult me about it later? My job is hard enough without the freak constantly breathing down my neck, and now I'm supposed to be doing his errands, too?" Anderson continues to complain. Pinching the bridge of his nose, Lestrade tries to keep his voice even.
"Look, either do it, or don't. I don't care. You know what your job is, all I care about is that you get it done." Lestrade tells him firmly, thinking that will be the end of it. He's dismayed to see that to not be the case though when Anderson opens his mouth to continue; but thankfully - or maybe not - his door opens and in walks Sherlock, and close behind him is Watson.
"Ah, I see Anderson still hasn't taken a sample from the pig." Sherlock announces, just as Lestrade feels the beginnings of a headache coming on.
"Get it yourself, freak." Anderson hisses angrily, to which Sherlock merely raises an eyebrow at him diffidently and sits in the chair in front of Lestrade's desk.
"I did. As if I would leave such an important task in your incapable hands." Sherlock answers, holding up a swab that is safely contained in both a plastic casing as well as a bag.
"Then why tell me to do it at all?!" Anderson asks in outrage, all but turning red.
"Experiment. I was curious whether I could teach a monkey to do forensics. I see that the chances are highly unlikely." Sherlock notes in a composed manner and only enraging Anderson further as he turns to Lestrade and gives him the, 'see-what-I-have-to-deal-with' look that his pre-teen daughter has perfected in regard to her younger brother.
Lestrade wonders if Anderson realizes that Lestrade has to deal with Sherlock as well.
"Why don't you tell them what we're here for?" Watson's voice brings a halt to the conversation and Anderson blinks in surprise at the reminder that Sherlock's husband was in the room as well.
"If they were at all competent at their jobs, they would already know. The fact that I have to explain only shows just how-"
"Sherlock. get on with it." The doctor interrupts. Sherlock turns a pout Johns way, but when the man returns the look with a firm one of his own, Sherlock concedes with a sigh and begins telling Lestrade about where they could find their latest murderer, as well as evidence on how he knows this is their murderer in the first place.
While Lestrade is surprised at how easy this all is, he knows better than to interrupt and instead scrambles for a pen and paper to write down notes with. By the end of what quickly turned into a lecture on their incompetency, Lestrade is left baffled once more as to how Sherlock was able to make such deductive leaps while Anderson silently fumes over by the door.
"Yes, thank you Sherlock. I think we've enough to be going on. I'll go and get someone to head to McCaffey's place now." Lestrade interrupts, happy to have the excuse to leave his desk for even a moment, which he does so now. Grabbing his notes, he's quick to leave the room, noting that Anderson follows close behind, shortly followed by Sherlock and John as well.
As he heads to Donovan's desk, Lestrade is already thinking about what the best procedure would be to apprehend a possibly armed poacher who is known for having an explosive temper when he suddenly picks up on the conversation being had behind him.
"Sherlock, we've talked about this before. You can't go deducing everyone you don't like. Doubly so when it comes to my boss." The irritation is clear in the doctor's tone as he addresses his partner and Lestrade can't help but wince in sympathy for the poor man having to constantly deal with the high-functioning sociopath.
"What are you on about now, John?" Sherlock asks in a bored tone, and Lestrade looks behind him just in time to see John showing the consulting detective his mobile.
"I don't see what the issue is. Why even get a boring job in the first place?" Even though he's no longer looking, Lestrade has no doubt that the heavy sigh he heard came from John.
"The bills?" He offers, to which Sherlock scoffs.
"Boring." The detective answers smoothly. Lestrade's sure that that will probably be the end of the conversation - at least, the bit that he'll hear of it - but when a new voice chimes in, he can't help but sigh himself now.
"Not even you're immune to the freak's tricks, then?" Anderson seems all too pleased to be making the remark, probably as a result of his previous ire against Sherlock. Lestrade regrettably stops in place and turns, ready to go back toward the three and break up the verbal abuse about to take place, but one look at John's demeanor has him freezing.
While the man is dressed as bland as possible in a cozy jumper that screams mild-mannered, his posture and expression send alarm bells ringing that this man is anything but peaceful. Everything about it screams danger, and Lestrade is reminded quickly that this man was - only a couple short weeks ago - a soldier in Her Majesty's army. It looks as if Anderson has just remembered this tidbit as well as he visibly falters.
"My husband doesn't keep his deductions from me, no. And I wouldn't want him to either. He's a genius, and while he could use a better brain-to-mouth filter sometimes, I would never force him to change who he is just because I don't like hearing the truth." His tone is even and calm as ever, but the steel mixed in proves that the man is still a threat, regardless.
The floor is silent as they all watch with bated breaths to see what will happen next, but when Watson only continues to stare Anderson down for a few more seconds, they're all relieved - as well as slightly disappointed - when the ex-soldier grabs Sherlock's hand and stalks off.
Lestrade doesn't think he's imagining the brief smug look he sees on the detective's face either.
The sound of an impressed whistle clues him in to Sergeant Donovan's close proximity as he turns around to face her.
"Enough evidence that the two of them are actually married yet?" Lestrade asks in good humor as he leads them over to her desk. Once there, he sets down the notes and the file for their current case on her desk and leans against it as she sits.
"Nope. Not at all. If anything, this only further proves that they're not married. No one is actually alright with the freak and his deductions." Donovan assures, just as smug as Sherlock had been on his way out.
Shaking his head, Lestrade changes the topic before his headache can come back and begins explaining the new developments in the McCaffey case to her. All the while, he's wondering how he ever thought for even a moment that Watson was being taken advantage of in his and Holmes's relationship.
A month has gone by since the arrival of John Watson and the revelation that he and Sherlock were married. While most of the office gossip has died down at this point, there are still a few who continue spreading rumors and theories about the two and their relationship - and at the head of it all is Donovan with her wild speculations about renting dates and faking relationships for the fun of it all. She's yet to find any evidence to support these theories, and she refuses to see reason and admit that the relationship between the two men is real, but she hasn't done any harm so far, and so Lestrade hasn't done anything to stop her other than add in his own evidence that contradicts her theories.
It's a light-hearted joke between the two more than anything, and they've even managed to turn it into a bit of a game between them. Whenever Lestrade offers evidence that the relationship between Watson and Holmes is in fact real, Donovan comes back with evidence of her own that it's fake.
It's a game of one-upping the other that is done in good fun, and at the moment Donovan has the lead after explaining how she caught Watson talking to Holmes about how he wasn't being paid enough to follow him around all the time. Lestrade refuted this with the fact that that could mean plenty of things, such as the fact that Watson hadn't been able to work lately due to a case that Sherlock was dragging him along to, or even the fact that it could just be a figure of speech, but he knew there was nothing he could say that would sway the Sergeant.
Besides, the game wasn't really to convince the other of their own theory, but to up the ante.
Which is why Lestrade was sitting in a pub, waiting for John Watson to show up for a pint. After they had finally wrapped up the case, the DI had offered to take the doctor out for a celebratory pint. He wanted to get to know the man better, because what he's seen of him so far was, as Donovan had said, too good to be true. Either the man was a literal saint, or there was more than met the eye when it came to him, and whatever the case was, Lestrade was interested to know more.
And, well, he could always use more friends, and Watson seemed the type to be a good one.
"Lestrade!" Looking over his shoulder at the sound of his name, Lestrade smiles and waves to Watson as he walks over and sits across from him.
"Watson. Glad to see you could make it. No Sherlock?" He asks in good humor, eliciting laughter from the doctor. The invitation for drinks had been extended to both Sherlock and John, but Lestrade hadn't been holding his breath that the detective would actually make an appearance.
"He doesn't seem the type to go out to the pub, does he?" Watson asks as he sets the drink he must have ordered before finding Lestrade down on the table.
"No, not really." Lestrade agrees as he takes a sip from his own pint.
"Still, I thought that if there was anyone that could convince him to go out, it would be you." Lestrade says as he sets his drink down and turns to better address John.
"I'm sure I could if I really wanted to. Wouldn't be all that difficult, but it wouldn't really be worth it. Sherlock can get a bit... snappish around so many people." He explains delicately. Lestrade hums in understanding at that and the conversation pauses as John takes a sip now.
"So how long have you two been together, then?" He asks amiably.
"Longer than we haven't." He says with a smile. Lestrade whistles at that, impressed.
"Childhood sweethearts then?" The DI continues, trying to keep the light-hearted teasing from his tone. He doesn't want Watson to think he was mocking him. They don't know each other well enough yet to know how he would react to such things just yet.
"Known him most of my life, yeah." Lestrade can't help but be further impressed by this information, because not only does Sherlock have himself a guy that seems to compliment him well, but he's also had him most of his life and has yet to scare him away.
"You probably have plenty of stories to tell, then!" Lestrade laughs, to which John joins in.
"You wouldn't believe how many I have. Sherlock has a tendency to get into trouble, even when there isn't any trouble to get into." John admits with a smile. They pause again to sip from their drinks before continuing.
"Since you've known him so long, you would know best if he's always been..." He trails off, trying to find a nice way to say 'a prick', but it seems John already knew where he was going.
"As long as I've known him, Sherlock hasn't changed. Well, actually, that's not true. But as for his big brain and lack of filter, yes, he's always been that way. Most of the trouble he would get us into was because of it. That and his ego." John says with a sigh and a shake of his head.
"That I can believe." The DI says emphatically as he raises his pint.
"So what kind of trouble did you get into?" Lestrade asks with a raised eyebrow, interested in the exploits of a young Sherlock Holmes. John only grins and takes a sip from his drink in response.
"Come on! You can't hold out on information like that!" Lestrade whines, but John doesn't relent.
"I'm not nearly drunk enough to risk Sherlock finding out I told you about the time he pissed off a farmer and had us running from a herd of sheep." John teases as he takes another sip and looks away from the DI. Smile growing on his lips, Lestrade laughs aloud at the image conjured by the words.
"Really? 
" He asks.
"At the time, I was more scared of the fact that the farmer was calling for the authorities, but the sheep were nothing to laugh at either. They can be brutal." John admits, eliciting more laughter from Lestrade.
"So Sherlock was just as bad then as he is now. Noted." Lestrade says once his laughter had died down.
"Worse. But he really would get into a snit if he knew I told you too much. Besides, what about you? You've got a wife, right? What's she like?" From there, the two discuss their lives - from Lestrade's cheating wife who he's giving not just a second chance to, but a third; to John's difficulty finding and keeping a job with Sherlock scaring off employer's and dragging him to crime scenes. It's a good time, and Lestrade is immensely happy he came up with the idea to invite the man out for drinks.
Somehow, without even trying, the conversation loops back around to the topic of Sherlock and John's relationship. Lestrade is telling him about the time he found out Sherlock was married due to spotting the ring on his finger which makes John smile fondly.
"When I first got back, I was surprised to see him wearing it, honestly." John admits, looking at his own ring that had appeared on his finger after that first meeting. That had caused even more whispering from Donovan as she tells him it's further proof that this was all a farce and that they had to go get a ring for the ex-soldier.
"Really? How long - if you don't mind my asking, that is..." Lestrade trails off, suddenly realizing what he'd been about to ask and realizing how that might not be good pub conversation to be having. John gives him the universal 'Go ahead' gesture though, and so he hesitantly continued.
"I was only going to ask, how long were you, you know, MIA?" He asks, clinging to his pint and wishing he'd never asked in the first place.
"It was... a while. Enough time that I questioned whether Sherlock would even want to continue the relationship." John admits, sipping slowly from his drink and looking at one of the telly's playing the match.
"You thought he would have remarried?" Lestrade asks, trying to keep the incredulity from his voice. After all, it was shocking enough for Sherlock to marry one man, much less two.
"No, I didn't think he would remarry. I'm fairly certain that I'm the only person Sherlock would ever want to marry, but I wasn't sure if by the time I came back he would have... moved on. Realized it was more hassle to deal with normal human emotions when he could instead isolate himself from everyone instead." John explains. And hearing it that way, Lestrade could understand the fear.
Sherlock, the self-proclaimed high-functioning sociopath, abhorred normal. He himself was anything but. He was eccentric and wild and lived by his own rules. Lestrade could see him being infuriated by human emotions like grief and despair and instead deny himself any future relationships so as to avoid the possible hurt that could come from them.
Still, after seeing the two together, Lestrade was certain that there would never be a world in which Sherlock would willingly deny John.
"I was also surprised to see him wearing the ring since he never wore it before." John adds on a lighter note.
"Not one for tradition?" Lestrade guesses, happy to move away from the depressing tone of the last conversation.
"It was more out of necessity. We were surrounded by a lot of intolerant people, and when we got married, it was easier for us to hide it than to face the backlash. Sherlock usually wore his ring around his neck and I wore mine on my finger. People assumed I had a girl somewhere, and I never corrected them. I think when I came back was the first time I'd seen the ring on his finger aside from the day I gave it to him." The doctor explains. That definitely hadn't been what Lestrade was expecting him to say. Only recently have times started changing to where the two could safely be together, and he hadn't even thought about the problems they may have faced in the past.
"I've only known Sherlock a short time, a few years, but he was wearing it the entire time, as far as I know. He seems to love you a lot." Never had Lestrade thought that he would talk about Sherlock loving someone before, but he finds that he means every word he says as he looks John in the eye.
"Here's hoping, because I'm absolutely mad for the massive git." John says with a quirk of a smile as he raises his pint. Mimicking the gesture, Lestrade raises his own and they take the last few sips of their drinks.
Just as he'd meant his words, Lestrade can see without a shadow of of a doubt that John means his just as much. It's endearing, and the DI knows now that there isn't any chance the two are faking this marriage.
"Well, enough about relationships. Do you watch football?" Lestrade asks once their drinks have been refilled.
"What kind of Englishman would I be if I didn't?" John asks with a grin.
Grinning back, the two begin talking about football just as passionately as they had their relationships.
Walking into New Scotland Yard, Lestrade rubs his forehead and regrets challenging a seasoned soldier to a drinking contest.
"Good morning, sir." Donovan says just a tad too sharp for his fragile skull.
"Morning Donovan." He all but groans as he walks over to her desk. She's wearing an amused smile at his hungover state and gives him a once over.
"Fun night?" She asks, to which the DI groans even louder.
"Loads." He mutters, remembering when he'd actually fallen off his seat. He was pretty sure he'd bruised his tailbone.
"But, I've got you beat. Holmes and Watson are definitely married." He says, perking up now as he also remembers everything they'd talked about before he'd stupidly issued the drinking challenge.
"Oh yeah? And what's that?" Donovan asks, still smiling as she prepares herself for any multitude of answers that Lestrade could respond with. Not to be deterred, Lestrade's smile widens as he turns to head toward his office.
"They love each other."
