In the morning, Meredith woke up to the sound of the alarm clock, blaring on her nightstand. She slammed it shut and got up in bed. She looked over to the other side of the bed, where Mycroft stirred and woke up, 'No, no, no, I know you pulled an all-nighter last night. Go back to sleep, I will wake you up in some time' she whispered, caressing his cheek. Mycroft groaned and fell back into the pillows. He wanted to fight but like death, sleep had put him on his back.
Meredith donned her robe and stepped out of the master bedroom, going across the hall to the nursery. She opened the door and switched on the lights of the dimly lit nursery. She walked to the crib and peered down at her son, who was still asleep. For the most part, Atticus was a very quiet baby, who rarely cried and didn't wake up more than twice during the night.
Meredith walked across the nursery and threw open the curtains of the window, letting the sunlight brighten the room. She opened the balcony door and smiled at the sunny view of the valley below. She walked back to the crib and gently unwrapped her son's swaddle, 'I know, I know' she cooed to him as he whined and stirred awake. She lifted him up and cradled him in her arms as she went downstairs to the kitchen.
In the kitchen, Meredith stood cradling Atticus in her arms. She switched on the stove and boiled a cup of water. She opened the kitchen window and cut some lemon grass leaves from the plant outside. She added the lemongrass, grated ginger, and tea leaves to the boiling water and then turned to switch on the coffee maker. She had taken to drinking tea ever since she had gotten pregnant and since she was breastfeeding, she stuck to it. She poured her tea into a cup and took it upstairs to the nursery with Atticus still cradled in her arms. She sat down in the nursing chair in the corner of the nursery and fed Atticus as she sipped on her morning tea and gazed out of the window.
Once Atticus was fed and changed, Meredith changed into her black running gear and strapped Atticus into his stroller. Atticus seemed to love that time of the day when Meredith jogged along a park in the early morning hours and pushed his stroller in front of her. He was her little running mate. They would run for 5 miles, stop at a smoothie joint to buy Meredith a green smoothie, and return home.
Once they return home, Meredith put Atticus back in his crib and woke up Mycroft with a cup of coffee. While Mycroft drank his morning coffee and ran on the treadmill for half an hour, Meredith took a shower and got ready.
Later, Meredith opened the mansion's front door and grinned at the woman standing in front of her, 'How was vacation with the kids?' she asked Mrs. Greene.
Mrs. Greene smiled and walked into the house with the morning paper in her hand, 'Two days in, and I wanted to get the hell out of there. Don't take me wrong, I love my kids but sometimes they make me want to blow my head off. I wish they never grew up' the old woman ranted as the two women walked back to the kitchen and started working.
Later, Mycroft entered the kitchen with his briefcase and suit jacket in hand. He placed them on the kitchen table next to Atticus's baby bouncer and stamped a chaste kiss on the baby's head. Meredith poured him another cup of coffee as he sat down to read the newspaper and his morning briefing. He glanced up in worry when Meredith screamed in pain and jerked her hand away from the hot pan. He winced as she stuck her finger into her mouth and handed him a plate of burned toast and fried eggs, 'Why can't you just let Mrs. Greene do her job?' he asked and took her hand in his, examining the burn. Meredith pouted innocently as Mrs. Greene and Mycroft looked at her with piercing glares.
Mycroft shook his head and walked to the counter as Meredith turned on the kitchen faucet, letting the cold water run down her hand. Behind her, Mycroft tore a paper towel off a roll and took some ice out of the freezer. Meredith glanced at him, 'I'm fine' she said, refusing the ice. Mycroft sighed and took her hand forcefully. He pulled her to the kitchen table and made her sit across from him, gently icing her burns. Meredith smiled softly and took the ice out of his hands, 'Eat' she ordered and pushed the plate of breakfast to him. Mycroft reluctantly started eating and glanced over his morning briefing. Meredith watched him eat with a knowing smile, 'How is it?' she asked.
Mycroft looked up from his briefing and smirked, 'Terrible' he answered honestly and continued to eat, making Meredith and Mrs. Greene laugh. 'Meredith' he said, pushing the briefing to her and she hummed in response as she quickly glanced over the briefing. 'What do you think? Can I pull it off?' he asked as Meredith went over the document.
Meredith looked up at him with a smile, 'Don't worry, Mycroft, you'll pull it off. Just don't look too desperate. Act like you don't care about it, you're doing them a favour by getting the Prime Minister to sign this deal and you're getting nothing in return. It's like poker, don't ever show them your hand' she advised and took a bite of his burnt toast.
Mycroft nodded and regarded her thoughtfully, 'When are you going to come back to work?' he asked. Ever since Meredith had given birth, Mycroft had taken on her workload. Filling in for both of them in Downing Street, since she was recovering from surgery.
Meredith shrugged and dropped the toast on his plate, 'Just a few more weeks... Until he's three months old' she said looking at Atticus who was playing in his bouncer.
Mycroft took off his glasses and looked at her in disbelief, 'That is six more weeks! Meredith, have you lost your mind? I can't do this anymore. Your job is utterly frustrating. The endless meetings, lunches, the whipping of votes. All those people, the horror... I can't do it anymore, you need to come back to work' he pleaded with a pained grimace on his face.
Meredith looked at him with her lips parted helplessly, 'Alright, just two more weeks. Okay?!' she asked, meeting him halfway.
'Fine' Mycroft sighed and kissed her as he shrugged his jacket on and gathered all his files in his briefcase. He pressed a kiss on their son's head before rushing out of the door. As they heard the front door close, Meredith and Mrs. Green shared a knowing look and burst into laughter.
Later, on her way back from Atticus's 6-week check-up and her own postnatal check-up, Meredith got a message on her phone.
Meredith smiled and looked at Atticus, 'Your daddy is in for a real treat tonight. Huh?' she cooed and kissed him.
At night, Mycroft entered the townhouse quietly and placed his briefcase and keys on the front hall table. He shrugged off his coat and walked into the house to find Meredith playing with Atticus in the living room. Meredith looked up from Atticus to Mycroft and smiled, walking into his awaiting hug. They embraced each other tightly, 'So proud of you, Mycroft' she said as they pulled apart.
Mycroft held her close, 'I didn't do it alone' he said and kissed her. The two sat on the living room couch and watched Atticus playing during tummy time, 'How did it go at the doctor's?' Mycroft asked Meredith.
Meredith glanced at Atticus briefly and smiled, 'Everything is fine' she said and stood up. She lifted Atticus in her arms and looked back at Mycroft, 'Go, freshen up. Dinner's ready' she said as she walked away to the dining room.
Later, after dinner, Mycroft sat in bed working on his laptop. He had been working a lot since Atticus's birth. And, he hated it. Meredith's job as Downing Street Chief of Staff required her meeting and negotiating with a lot of people, having meetings and going on lunches and dinners for business. And, Mycroft hated entertaining. Mycroft was hoping Meredith would come back to work soon, so he could go back to what he did best.
Meredith walked out of the master bathroom and entered the bedroom, wearing black vinyl lingerie with stockings and suspenders. She seductively posed against the doorframe, 'Hello, Mr. Holmes' she said with a smirk.
Mycroft was too busy working to notice the outfit Meredith was wearing, 'Hello' he drawled without looking up at his wife.
Meredith sighed and shook her head, 'Okay, put the laptop away and let's try this again' she asked, not letting her husband's disinterest dishearten her.
Mycroft sighed and finally looked up, 'Meredith, I'm very bu... Ohh!' his voice trailed off as he took in his wife's striking appearance.
Meredith glared at him, 'Seriously?! 6 weeks after giving birth your wife looks like this and your reaction is 
she scolded.
Mycroft rolled his eyes and nodded, 'Good Job' he offered half-heartedly.
Meredith sighed and shook her head, 'I'm going to ignore that because I've not had sex in six weeks and I'm really horny. And we only have two and half hours before the Atticus wakes up' she said and strode to Mycroft decisively.
Meredith took off Mycroft's shirt and pushed him onto the bed. She mounted on top of him and straddled herself on his hip, running her hands up and down his upper body. She leaned down and kissed him, as he clutched her back and sat up with her. They stroked each other's skin as they continued to kiss. Mycroft stopped her and got out of the bed, exiting the room in a hurry.
Meredith frowned in surprise and looked at the door in disappointment. A few minutes later, Mycroft re-entered the master bedroom with a bottle of champagne in an ice bucket. Smirking at his wife, he started a fire in the fireplace and walked back to bed. He popped open a bottle of champagne and poured it out for both of them. They toasted and drank champagne. Mycroft took the glass from Meredith and placed it on the nightstand and leaned over, capturing her lips in his.
Mycroft and Meredith kissed passionately and leaned back in bed. Mycroft kissed down Meredith's neck as she ran her finger through his hair. He started to work the complicated outfit Meredith was wearing and tried to take it off, only for it to get stuck in Meredith's head, 'Dear Lord. Why did you have to wear this death trap?' he asked as he tried to get the outfit off of her.
Meredith chuckled, while still stuck in her outfit, '21 years and I've not been able to teach you this' she said and they both laughed as Mycroft triumphantly took off the outfit. They kissed and Mycroft leaned down, sliding his hand up her thigh and slipping off her panties. As Mycroft slid his head down her body and landed between her legs, they were interrupted by their phones.
Mycroft looked up from between Meredith's legs and Meredith shook her head, 'Six weeks, Mycroft. Six weeks' she reminded and Mycroft nodded. Meredith arched her back as he slid his mouth back down, but before either of them could do anything they are interrupted by both their phones ringing simultaneously and relentlessly. Mycroft frowned and looked up at Meredith. They both shared a worrying look as they fumbled for their phones, 'Jane, it's the middle of the night' Meredith scolded as Mycroft had the same conversation with Anthea. Meredith frowned and reached for her iPad. She opened a file sent to her by Jane, it was a newspaper article. The headline reading- 
.
Mycroft looked back at Meredith and looked at the article Meredith was showing him on her iPad, 'Anthea, why don't you come over?' he said with a horrified expression and hung up.
Meredith asked Jane to do the same and hung up, 'Is it true?' she asked her husband with a pensive expression. Mycroft sighed and averted his gaze, nodding in reply. Awkward, disappointing silence filled the room as both of them stared off distantly, each lost in their own thoughts, feeling forced to have yet another difficult conversation. In the nick of time, they were saved by their son waking up from his peaceful slumber and crying. The new parents silently exchange a quick glance, an understanding that he would go tend to their son while she went and changed into something more appropriate.
After a few minutes, Meredith entered the nursery across the hall from the master bedroom and found that her husband had already changed their son's diaper, and was now gently rocking him as they waited for her.
Meredith knocked on the door, getting Mycroft's attention. Mycroft turned around and nodded, acknowledging her presence. He walked to her and handed her the fussing newborn, before leaving the room.
Meredith cradled the six-week-old in her arms and sat down in a nursing chair in the corner of the dimly lit nursery. His fussing quickly progressed to crying as Meredith adjusted him in her arms, 'Oh, no, no, no, it's okay, it's okay' she gently bounced him on her lap as she took off her blouse. She sat with Atticus and lowered her bra, trying to feed him. Atticus nuzzled around for a few seconds but was quick to latch on and start nursing.
Usually, Meredith loved looking into her son's bright little eyes and kissing his tiny fingers as he nursed but that night it was different. That night there was a conflict in her eyes. She took his tiny hands as he nursed and kissed it, like she always did and a tear slipped from her eye, rolling down her cheek. She quickly wiped it away when she heard the footsteps approaching the nursery.
Mycroft opened the nursery door and peeked in, 'Security just called, they're here' he whispered, careful not to disturb their son who was starting to fall asleep. Meredith nodded and Mycroft left the room without another word, failing to notice the tears in his wife's eyes.
Meredith turned her attention back to her son, who seemed to have finished eating. So, she pulled him back up and burped him. She rocked him back to sleep and put him in his crib, before she made her way down to discuss their options with Anthea, Jane, and her father.
Downstairs, in the living room, Mycroft, Meredith, Henry, Anthea, and Jane were sitting in a circle discussing their options on the latest disaster they were dealing with, 'The article is coming out in the next few days. This is the preview...' Anthea informed and showed the article to Henry on her iPad.
The article had an off-putting and crude caricature of a man kissing a woman dressed in black mourning clothes while a pregnant woman stands beside him facing the other way, the headline blaring across the screen read- 
the article described how certain high-ranking bureaucrats in Downing Street had earned the reputation of sleeping with the widows of nobility, while they had pregnant wives waiting for them at home. Though the article never named Mycroft directly, it was clear who it was alluding to.
Henry grimaced and exhaled in unease as he read the preview of the article, 'Who's the source? Who's the reporter? Let's discredit this thing...' he began.
Anthea shook her head and cut him off, 'None of that matters. And, absolutely not, none of you can look like you're undermining the freedom of the press' she reminded what was obvious to the three high ranking officials.
Henry sighed heavily and handed the iPad to Meredith, 'Well, I'm willing to make a statement about the damn thing, if it'll help' he told her.
Meredith tossed the iPad on the coffee table in exasperation and shook her head, 'No, the PMO will only draw more attention. You need to stay as far away from this as possible. We need to deal with this ourselves. The only thing the PMO will talk about is government work as usual. If the press corners you, you can say the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom of Great Britain does not engage in gossip mongering' she said firmly. This was their mess. Or rather, this was Mycroft's mess, they would have to deal with it themselves.
Anthea looked at her boss uncomfortably, 'Did you?' she asked, not shying away from the subject.
'Yes' Mycroft sighed.
'Who was it?' Jane asked.
'Lady Smallwood'
Henry sighed and cupped his hands over his face, 'Good Lord'.
'When?' Anthea asked, wanting to get everything out then and there. So, they knew how to go about the situation.
Mycroft finally averted his gaze uncomfortably, 'About three months ago, Meredith was 6 months along at the time. It was a one-time thing. We went out for drinks, got drunk, I ended up spending the night with her' he explained, keeping the not so elaborate lie brief.
Anthea nodded, 'Okay, you can't say any of that in front of anyone' she said firmly.
Jane nodded in agreement, 'I've spoken to everyone at the paper, they're not naming a source. This couldn't have been anonymous. Do you know anybody who could have done this?' she asked.
Mycroft and Meredith shook their heads, 'Nobody' Mycroft answered.
'Is Lady Smallwood going on the record?' Jane asked Mycroft.
Mycroft shrugged and shook his head gingerly, 'I wouldn't think so. She has a daughter, she wouldn't. Not without speaking to us first' he told them.
Anthea nodded, 'Let's be sure about that'.
Mycroft nodded, 'I'll talk to Elizabeth' he said, cringing at how easily the woman's first name had flown out of his lips.
Jane pursed her lips uncomfortably, 'Maybe it'll be smarter if we avoid contact'.
Mycroft frowned, 'What are we going to do? Somebody has to respond, whether it's her, or us, or both' he reminded them.
'Nothing you say is going to make it better' Anthea told him and the three; Anthea, Jane, and Mycroft started arguing.
'I'm not running from this'
'You cannot address this'
'Why not?'
'For one the article doesn't name anyone directly, and two, if you do address this that'll be the only thing people will see'
Meredith decided to intervene, 'Anthea, Jane, I...'.
Jane cut off her boss, 'Ignore it, and it's one news cycle. Answer it, and it'll follow you the rest of your campaign' she reminded her.
Meredith nodded in agreement, 'But, not answering makes it look like we have something to hide' she reasoned.
'You do have something to hide!' Anthea reminded the couple.
Jane noticed the tired expression on her boss's face and treaded lightly, 'Please, trust us you'll be making a big mistake. Let us take care of this' she asked.
Meredith sighed, 'Jane,...'.
Jane cut her off once again, 'We've got this covered, Ma'am. The closer either of you get to this, the guiltier you look' she explained gently.
Meredith surrendered in exasperation, 'Okay'.
'What should I do, head back to the office?' Mycroft asked.
Anthea nodded, 'Yes, you two need to act like it's business as usual. If possible, try to avoid the press' she told them.
'Alright' Mycroft sighed and poured himself a drink.
Jane looked at Meredith cautiously, 'Have you thought about a public appearance with the baby?' she asked.
Meredith frowned, 'What are you trying to get at, Jane?' she asked, shooting her assistant a warning look.
Jane shrugged innocently, 'Maybe you can take him to the park, let the paparazzi get a few shots of you two playing with him. Be a normal family...' she explained.
Meredith glared at Jane, 'Our six-week-old son isn't doing damage control for his parent's scandal' she said angrily.
Jane and Anthea looked at each other uncomfortably, 'We'll shut this down, Ma'am'.
Meredith shot them a look that said they better, 'There can't be any doubt. I don't want my son to grow up and see any of this' she said and stormed out of the room.
Henry who had been a silent spectator in that conversation finally spoke up after a few minutes of painful silence, 'Well, if I don't have anything to do here, I'm going to go see my grandson' he said and scurried out of the living room.
Anthea and Jane shared a brief glance and looked at Mycroft, 'Alright, let's walk through a timeline. When did you first meet Lady Smallwood?' they started their enquiry.
Mycroft sat down in surrender with a drink in his hand, 'About four years ago, before the passage of the Veterans Bill' he started answering any question Anthea or Jane had. He would do anything to make sure the mess he had gotten them into would go away as quickly and quietly as possible. Under no circumstances, did he want Meredith or in the future their son to have to answer questions related to this.
In the nursery, Meredith stood towering over her son's crib, watching him try to reach the mobile hanging over his crib. Watching her son, always seemed to calm her down. Henry stood at the door watching with a small smile. After a few minutes, he knocked at the door, surprised she hadn't noticed him yet, 'May I?' he asked and Meredith nodded with a smile. Henry grinned and walked to the crib, peering in at the baby who was wide awake. Leaning in, he gently lifted Atticus up and into his arms. The baby fussed for a few seconds then quickly settled in his grandfather's arms.
Meredith watched with a warm smile as her father played with her son, 'It's been 40 years, but you're still great at it' she complimented with a surprised tone.
Henry looked slightly offended, 'Hey, nobody can resist my charm' he reminded her.
Meredith chuckled and turned her attention back to her son, who was very fascinated by his grandfather's hair, 'Yeah, we should leak a video of you playing with your grandson. Maybe that'll distract people from this damned article' she muttered.
Henry glanced at her briefly then fixed his gaze back at the baby as he bounced Atticus gently in his arms, 'Yeah, about that. Meredith, you know you can always come home, right?' he asked casually.
Meredith frowned in surprise, 'Are you high?' she asked him.
'What?!' Henry asked.
Meredith shrugged, 'It's just... my father usually tells me to clean up my face and get my husband back' she told him, thinking of the time she was pregnant and had left Mycroft.
Henry huffed a small laugh, 'I might be a little drunk' he admitted. It had been a difficult night for all of them, 'I'm serious about that offer' he told her.
Meredith nodded and leaned up to kiss her father's cheek, 'I love you, daddy'.
Henry smiled and wrapped an arm around Meredith, with Atticus perched on his other arm, 'I love you too, baby' he whispered and affectionately pressed a kiss on the crown of her head.
Later the same night, Mycroft entered the dark master bedroom after he had informed Anthea and Jane of all the details of his relationship with Lady Smallwood. He walked slowly over to the king-size bed and sat down on the edge. Meredith was lying on her side, facing away from him. He knew she was awake, 'Meredith, it was...' he whispered, looking away from her and staring up at the wall.
Meredith stared at the alarm clock, reading 
'We don't have to talk about it. Tomorrow is going to be a big day. You should go to sleep' she said and curled her head deeper into the pillow in an attempt to fall asleep. But sleep wouldn't come.
Mycroft turned to face her back then turned away, 'I'm not sure I can' he whispered.
Meredith's eyes flickered for a moment, 'Then you should go back downstairs' she said, composing herself. Mycroft sighed inaudibly and headed outside. Meredith heard his footsteps fade away and let out a strained breath. She looked back at the door for a moment then covered her face with her hand and started to cry. She cried for a few seconds then stopped and composed herself. She got out of bed and donned her robe. She went to the master bathroom and splashed water on her face. She looked at her reflection for a few moments then dabbed her face with a towel and went back to bed. She desperately needed an answer to a question. What do you do when your whole life falls apart? When everything that was once perfect goes to shit?
