Molly had expected the shadow to appear on the door blind, had been waiting for it. But she didn't know how she would greet the man behind that shadow; her emotions were so wildly conflicted. There was another problem, however. It was the wrong shadow. It was not of the man she had been preparing herself to face. This shadow was slightly shorter and he carried an umbrella. It was Mycroft Holmes. Suddenly, for a few heart-stopping moments, all Molly felt was overwhelming dread. Had she been right suppose that Sherlocks' phone call had been from a drug induced brain and he had finally pushed it too far? Molly's breath caught in her throat at the thought. In Molly's mind, she had already minutely analyzed every word he had said over and over, and she didn't think he sounded high or anything like that. But what other explanation could there be for such a random and...awkward phone call then Mycroft and not Sherlock showing up on her doorstep?
Mycroft knocked on her door a second time. She couldn't put this off any longer and took slow, deliberate steps towards the door. As Molly opened the door, Mycroft turned and spoke to someone who was standing off to the side in the yard.
"Come along now.". Mycroft said gruffly to the other man.
The man mumbled something under his breath and shuffled himself to follow Mycroft and Molly into her flat.
Mycroft had barely made it in the front door when Molly turned on him, but before she could speak a word the second man had walked around Mycroft and pushed passed Molly and went all over looking this way and that.
Temporarily distracted by the man's rudeness, Molly opened her mouth to protest but Mycroft spoke first.
"Please don't be alarmed Dr Hooper. I will explain everything, of course, but it is expedient for this technician to sweep your house for cameras and microphones.
"What?". Molly asked, confused. She looked back and forth from Mycroft to the other man who was, literally, looking in every nook and cranny of her flat. "I don't understand.".
"It is rather a lengthy story, Miss Hooper, so if you don't mind to fix some tea, I will tell you all." Mycroft extended his arm towards the kitchen.
Molly hesitated. She wasn't so sure about leaving a complete stranger to wander about her house but Mycroft seemed to trust the man.
Without looking towards the him, Mycroft said, we know there were at least three cameras employed in the kitchen."
"Yes, sir.". The man said in a deep, heavily accented voice. "Right away."
