 Lady Sam Mallory
 Boys not mine; I just borrow them from time to time when the muse moves me.
 My Beta Queen, Zoe, without whom I'd be doomed to a life of grammatical inaccuracy. You are truly my conductor of light. Thank you for well over 30 years of friendship.
For my beautiful friend, Heather, whose incredible command of the English language allows her to provide me with individually needed words at a moment's notice.
 H/C, Smarm, Some violence, and usually a bit of colourful language.
All of season 3
While there are many wonderful scenes in Seasons three of Sherlock BBC, there exist so many issues as well. John kept a tire lever in his pants for several hours, or kept removing it and putting it back, through the drug flat, the car, the lab, the cab and then throughout his visit at Baker St. These things stay with me, as does the fact that John Watson, a soldier and doctor, presents so passively. He served three tours in Afghanistan. So a few changes were necessary. This story offers a more multidimensional John, yet still gives the characters the needed experiences, otherwise the cases are the same. Hope you enjoy it.
John walks briskly down Baker Street on his way home from the surgery. The cold November wind pushes him home just a bit faster. Although it's been a long day, he can't wait to see his Rosie.
As he turns towards 221B, a man wearing black knocks into him causing John to turn towards the offender.
"Yeah, hi to you too, mate," John remarks, turning towards the offender as another man comes up behind him. Sensing the body so closely behind, he throws a hard elbow into the attacker's face, breaking his nose, as blood starts gushing.
""Shit, you broke it," the man roars, trying to grab at John and once again failing.
"Sorry 'bout that, but the answer is no, I don't feel the need to go with you at this time," John states matter of factly as he hears a slight rustling sound behind him.
John turns to face the new adversary who strikes a glancing blow with a cudgel. The doctor kicks him in the side of the knee and advises, "You'll want to get that looked at. I'm a doctor. I know these things."
The first attacker manages to get his elbow around the stunned doctor's throat and inject him with a syringe. John head butts him but falls back into the man as his muscles no longer cooperate.
"Shit," he mutters, now knowing with absolute certainty what's in the syringe-Succinylcholine. Nothing acts faster for muscle paralysis. He hopes the arsehole knows what he's doing. He would, in fact, like to wake up again.
The men bend to grab John's arms and drag him to a waiting vehicle. "Damn, he was a slippery bastard. That woulda been nice to know," the taller man remarks, shoving him towards the back of the car.
John glances at the door to his flat, grateful that they took him down outside. He's carelessly thrown into the boot. Knowing that Rosie's still inside with Mya, the doctor succumbs to unconsciousness.
—-
Sherlock strides into the flat placing his fish and chips on the table. Grabbing a glass from the cupboard, he fills it with water before removing his Belstaff and scarf and hanging them by the door.
He circles back to his meal, grabs the box up, and begins eating as he can't remember the last time he's eaten. Sitting at his desk, he begins to study the files he's composed on the upcoming terrorist attack that his brother seems so concerned about.
A text alert breaks his concentration for a moment as he decides whether he should look at it. He just told John he'd work on checking his texts more often as it could be an emergency, especially if he was at work and it was Mya.
Reading the text, he sees the following message flash up at him from the screen.
QYUG RNEQ QWSQNT
PDZMDDT EPEZNKN
The phone beeps again and the same text appears repeatedly on his screen.
QYUG RNEQ QWSQNT
PDZMDDT EPEZNKN
At first glance, it's nonsense and he nearly dismisses it before he catches the clue.
"Playfair Cypher, unusual," he remarks, grabbing a pen and paper to translate. He quickly scratches out th grids in two letter format, beginning to mark out letters and fill in the gaps.
Looking at the phrase written out, his blood runs cold as he leaps from his chair and grabs his Belstaff and scarf.
Save John Watson
Fifteen Minutes
Typing the password into the tracking app they use for each other; he flies down the stairs shoving the paper into his pocket. Racing out the front door, he steps into the street to hail a cab, glancing back down at the address on his phone for St. James the Less Church.
That's 3.4 miles in what is now 13 minutes, and he calculates that he will not have time to get there in the current traffic.
He commandeers a motorbike without apology, then races south down Baker Street toward Melcombe Street. He takes a quick right on Green and a left on Picadilly speeding between cars and on an empty sidewalk at one point.
There's a traffic stop ahead, so he jumps the curb and races through a section of Hyde Park past the Wellington Arch.
Continuing in this vein, he shaves off more time. Suddenly, until he sees a huge bonfire off to his left. He quickly turns the bike to cross the lot and skids to a stop near a crowd surrounding a blazing bonfire.
He knows without a doubt that John lies at the bottom of all that rubbish, because honestly where else would John be after the message he received.
Tearing through the throng of people, he shouts out, "John, I'm here."
He makes it to the pile and starts pulling out planks, chairs, boards, and anything else his hands touch disregarding any burns he himself may receive but grateful for the thick gloves he's wearing. Finding one of John's legs, he pulls his friend out of the fire, trying to guard his face and head from the flames.
The crowd begins to circle him when they realize what has transpired.
"Step back," Sherlock barks out, flipping John onto his back, as he pats out the flames that have managed to catch.
"Is there a doctor here?" the detective asks, swatting at John's hand when he raises it.
John tries to focus on Sherlock's form swimming in front of him, but the action makes him nauseous, and he begins to retch from the effort.
Sherlock hurriedly turns him onto his side, placing him in the recovery position, before asking someone to call an ambulance.
"I'm a doctor," a woman says as she pushes through the crowd and kneels next to John's shaking form.
Someone hands her a blanket which she places over him. "Let's just keep him calm and warm until the ambulance arrives," she suggests, meeting Sherlock's concerned gaze.
Paramedics are on scene within seven minutes.
"His name?" the female paramedic, Megan, asks as she checks his pupillary reflex.
"Dr. John Watson," Sherlock replies, trying to stay where John can see him.
The second paramedic works on the minor burns on John's hands where the fire got a little too close for comfort.
Megan nods as she notes his sluggish responses and takes his vitals. "We're going to transport to St. Thomas Hospital. You may follow," she informs the detective who disagrees with her statement.
"This man's a kidnap victim. I'm afraid I must stay with him until we can take his statement," Sherlock commands, flashing the badge he nicked off the inspector late last week.
—-
"Rosie," John's hoarse croak rises from the hospital bed.
Sherlock places a steady hand on the doctor's shoulder. "She's fine, John. I've already called Mya, and she said Rosie fell asleep two hours ago," the detective reassures his friend.
John closes his eyes and drops his head back. "Two men. Broken…nose…dislocated ….knee," the soldier struggles to relate sluggishly, his breath wheezing in and out of his smoke damaged lungs.
"I know, John. Be reasonable and save your strength. Mycroft sent over the recordings, and I assure you 
 will deal with them. Lestrade and the Yarders have the footage as well," Sherlock promises as he continues to rest his hand reassuringly on John's left shoulder.
The fair -haired doctor inhales to speak, causing a massive coughing fit that has him rolling onto his left side retching.
"No, you're staying. You are not leaving this bed until tomorrow morning at the earliest. You have first degree burns on your hands and face, smoke inhalation, and a concussion. The doctor said they'd re-evaluate tomorrow," Sherlock dictates, leaving no room for argument.
John shakes his head and makes a rude gesture at his flatmate.
"Five minutes, John. Just rest and then they'll be here," the lean detective promises as John's eyes grow heavy and close to rest for a moment.
True to his word, the door opens and Mya glides through the door with Rosie in her buggie. The child's face lights up when she sees her Uncle Sherlock bend to release her from what feels like a prison.
"Thank you, Mya. We will require your services overnight as I have no intention of leaving him alone until we figure out what's going on," Sherlock informs the nanny, who nods in agreement.
Lifting the wee one into his arms, he strides to the bed and holds Rosie close. "Your father's exhausted after a hard day. He's sleeping, but we'll see him when he wakes up in a bit," he informs the sweet baby as she reaches for her daddy, before deciding to pull on Sherlock's hair. "Sherylyn, we talked about this," he reminds the child as he disentangles his hair from her tiny fingers, and she giggles.
John's eyes snap open at the giggle he can't help but recognize. He offers a smile, despite the pain, his grateful eyes on Sherlock, who since his return always seems to know what he needs.
"Feel better, Dr. Watson," Mya offers, before having a seat across the room.
"Thank you," John responds subvocally as he turns his smile on his sweet girl.
John reaches out for his daughter, as Sherlock gently lays the toddler on John's chest giving her a pat on her back, before stepping away to give the man a little privacy.
"I've got you, my Rosie. Daddy's here," he whispers, gently holding her, closing his eyes at the close call, and breathing in her powder-fresh scent.
—-
November 5, 2013
"What are we looking for?" John asks, his croak reverberating through the train car.
The detective shakes his head, answering, "Not entirely sure, but the homeless network information leads us here, so…just look for anything out of place in the carriage."
"Right," the doctor answers, sweeping the torch from side to side.
"Thanks for taking care of our network while I was gone," Sherlock's gratified voice carries through the car.
The doctor nods and continues his search. "I tried like hell to keep them all safe, but …we lost a few good people," John responds, sighing heavily.
"I know, John. You always take care of them. Mycroft has someone that sees to their services for us," Sherlock reminds him, as he moves the torch beam along the walls near one of the passenger doors.
Sherlock continues to search for anything out of place, "Ah, there it is," the detective says, spotting the red and black wires that wend under the seats as he lifts the bolsters.
"John, under the cushions. Look for the main bomb," Sherlock instructs as he works to follow the web of wires back to its source.
"I'm sorry, Sherlock, but did you just say bomb?" the doctor asks hoarsely, still reeling from the new information. "Of course, there's a bomb. As if it wasn't a close enough call last night," John finishes as he continues to pull cushions off the seats.
"Got it," Sherlock notes as he's found the source, and John crosses the car to have a look.
"Very good, mate. Now what? Did you save me last night just to get me blown up today?" John inquires, causing his flatmate to chuckle.
The detective smiles at the doctor before replying, "Don't be absurd, John. Just look for an off switch."
The doctor looks askance at his obviously crazy flatmate. "Did you just say off….? Terrorist bombs contain failsafes, Sherlock, not off switches. Afghanistan has a lot of terrorists," John reminds his friend as he inspects the bomb with surgical precision.
"These are not your typical terrorists, as this explosive has been retrofitted and wired into the carriage's electrical system," Sherlock informs him, just as the lights turn on and the bomb begins its countdown.
The detective smiles at the confirmation of his theory and John congratulates, "Yes, you were right, but I'd be happier if we weren't about to be blown to hell. I was a doctor, not the bloody bomb disposal unit."
"We were made to find this," Sherlock informs his flatmate, "so the solution would be within our combined skill set. Look for a toggle; there's no audience to applaud their cleverness if we're dead."
John's trembling hand brushes a flip switch, and he swears, "What about this? Shall we give it a go?" the doctor asks, glancing up at Sherlock who nods affirmatively.
The doctor flips the switch causing the timer to stutter just as he hears Lestrade's shout.
Sherlock and John step from the carriage as bomb disposal arrives on scene to John's surprise.
"I texted Lestrade on the way. More expedient," Sherlock admits as the Detective Inspector approaches them.
—-
November 12, 2013
Mrs. Hudson knocks quietly before opening the door.
"Boys, I know it's late…, but you have a client here," Mrs. Hudson remarks as she opens the door a bit wider.
Sherlock nods and drops into his seat as John moves the desk chair into position.
"Please sit and let us know what we can do for you…" John begins, awaiting her introduction.
The tall regal looking blonde woman takes a seat primly before saying, "My name is Lady Elizabeth Smallwood. I need your help with a matter that requires the utmost discretion."
"Of course," John utters, grabbing his pad of paper and pen off his side table so that he can take notes. He finds them very helpful throughout the case, as well as when he writes his blog when the case has ended.
Sherlock examines her closely, his fingers steepled in front of him. "You hold a position of importance so let's get on with this," he states, rolling his left hand as if to hurry her along. "Who has violated your safety?" He asks boldly, causing her to flinch slightly before schooling her expression.
"An interesting choice of words, Mr. Holmes. I was approached this evening by Charles Augustus Magnussen, which is inappropriate as I'm currently investigating allegations made against him. Unfortunately, I am unable to tell you more than that about the examination other than the fact that he's blackmailing me for a favourable decision."
"Obviously not the only thing he's done. He threatened you. Contusion on your right wrist. What else?" Sherlock notes, looking right through her.
Lady Smallwood shudders with revulsion, turning her face away from them, tipping her head towards her right shoulder. She seems to shake it off and make eye contact with the detective then John, who seems more amenable. "He…licked…my face," she whispers furiously, her hand drawing upward to cover her mouth.
John leans forward giving Sherlock a stern look when he mutters, "Interesting."
"He needs to be stopped," she says, sitting a little taller in the chair. "He has some sensitive letters that I must have back. Will you help me?" She inquires standing up as Sherlock gets up from his chair.
"We'll take the case, but it'll take time. Charles Augustus Magnussen has offices here in London, though he's a Danish businessman. I'll make the arrangements," Sherlock states as he strides out of the room.
John stands and leads the regal woman to the door of the flat as she hands him her card. "We'll be in contact as soon as we can," he promises, as he closes the door.
—-
November 13, 2013
Sherlock and John burst through the door to the flat.
"Are you insane?" John yells, pacing throughout the flat, after tossing his bag onto his chair angrily.
Sherlock shrugs as he replies, "I've been tested…"
John makes a guttural choking sound.
"You're welcome to reassess," Sherlock provides in an effort to placate his worried friend. He does try.
"Don't tempt me," John warns, pointing at his flatmate. "Do you have any idea what you'll be putting yourself through?" The doctor asks, knowing the answer before he even glances at Sherlock's cognizant expression.
"Of course, you do," John states emphatically, shaking his head at his thick-headed friend.
Sherlock wisely remains silent as John works through it all using so…many…words. This is the doctor's process, and he knows his friend will concede as this plan remains the best course of action with a 52.4 percent chance of success.
John's shoulders drop, as he acknowledges his concession, causing Sherlock to smile.
"Let me guess. You have formulated eleven plans, and this one has the highest probability of succeeding," the doctor elucidates, pausing to look at his flatmate.
Sherlock smiles once again before congratulating him. "Very good, John. However, I only had four workable plans but am gratified by your belief that I could have more."
John shakes his head with a smile. God, how he'd missed their banter during those two years of hell.
"You're smiling, John. This is serious," Sherlock chastises, unable to keep the amusement from his clear blue eyes.
John chuckles as he moves towards his chair before replying, "It's not a crime scene."
Sherlock laughs as well before his expression grows sombre. "I have come across every bit of evil depravity humans can offer, but Charles Augustus Magnussen presents a danger which I cannot abide," the detective clarifies, his blue eyes following John back to his chair.
John nods and looks up at Sherlock's repulsed expression. His friend constantly amazes him with his strong sense of what's right, a very odd quality for a self- proclaimed sociopath.
"We'll need to make arrangements for Rosie. Magnussen gathers information on people, then like a shark hunting its prey, he descends upon them applying pressure until they break," Sherlock relates, his blue eyes intense with disdain for the media mogul. "He calls them pressure points and uses them in the name of business, but his influence has long lasting repercussions."
"I'll talk to Mya. Rosie should be up any time now," John states, knowing full well that his friend knows her schedule probably better than he does.
Sherlock nods in agreement. "Tell her to use the emergency packet we gave her last month. As you know, it contains credit cards and identifications necessary for their protection," he reminds the good doctor.
"Jesus," John hisses under his breath. "I can't let anything happen to her, Sherlock," he whispers, lacking the breath for anything more.
Sherlock stands and places his hands on his friend's shoulders. "John…" He starts knowing that the man spirals when it comes to his daughter. "John, look at me," he orders, shaking the other man's shoulders while applying enough pressure to achieve the doctor's obedience.
John's cerulean eyes meet Sherlock's ocean ones as the detective promises, "I give you my solemn vow that I will give my life for Rosie. She will remain under our protection, always, but we mustn't underestimate Magnussen."
Rosie's cries break through the heavy silence remaining after this assertion. "Thank you, Sherlock," John mutters gratefully, as he turns to bring comfort to his child.
—-
"There's Daddy's girl. It's okay, sweetie," John soothes as he lifts his daughter from the cot in her flowered blanket.
Rosie hiccoughs as she begins to calm in her Daddy's arms. "Look how big you are," he remarks, holding her in front of the mirror to calm her. She begins to pat the glass reflection, babbling to the baby she sees there.
John lays her down on his bed to change her, handing her the stuffie with her mother's picture in it. "That's your mum," he says with a sigh, before placing the clean nappy and getting her dressed for the day in a pink 'Daddy's Little Dumpling' babygrow.
"Come on sweetie," he murmurs, picking her back up to his shoulder again.
"Let's go see what Uncle Sherlock's up to, shall we?" He asks her with a smile on his face as he makes his way down the stairs and turns into the kitchen.
Sherlock hands him a little plastic bowl of warm cereal and her beaker filled with infant formula. John stirs it and hands her the spoon before setting her beaker on the tray in front of her. Grabbing some blueberries, he puts them on her tray, and she pops one in her mouth with a big smile.
Sherlock hands John a cup of coffee because, for mornings with a baby, tea often doesn't cut it.
"Thanks," John says, taking a sip as he goes through the baby changing bag to ensure that he has packed everything. The doctor smiles as he watches her feed herself. She notices him and smiles up at him causing milk to leak out the corners of her mouth.
Sherlock looks upon her in abject horror saying, "That's quite enough of that, young lady."
John barks out a laugh when she blows a raspberry at him, getting cereal everywhere.
Sherlock tries to remain stern, but his facade cracks slightly in his correction. "Sherylyn Rosamund Watson, we keep the food in our mouths," he states with authority. "Your laughter is not helping, John."
John shakes his head as his laughter continues. "She's ten months old, Sherlock. A bit early to be pulling out all three names," he remarks, not bothering to stifle his amusement.
"It's never too early, John," the detective reminds his friend as he tosses the doctor a wetted flannel.
"Mya agreed to the arrangements?" Sherlock asks the doctor.
"Yeah, she was fine. Didn't even question it. I'm beginning to think there's more to my nanny than meets the eye," the doctor says, tilting his head to the side.
"Of course, there is, John. She worked for my brother, one of his Antheas, nine years ago. My brother doesn't want to have to remember their does make it easier," Sherlock admits, to the chagrin of his flatmate.
"One of the many reasons people think you're both arseholes," John elucidates, setting the flannel aside for a moment while Rosie's trying to finish eating.
"Probably true. She's also the best trained, highest paid nanny in all of England," Sherlock surmises, looking at John over his tea.
"Bloody hell," John curses, as he uses the flannel to clean the baby before Mya gets to the flat. She whips her head around in an attempt to dodge the effort.
"Sorry, I thought you knew," Sherlock responds, setting his cup in the sink before turning back to his flatmate.
"That my nanny is a former agent?" The doctor solicits, staring at his friend's back. "You could give that a rinse, while you're there, you know," John suggests, sighing when Sherlock ignores him.
"Not former. Mycroft would not be that careless with…" Sherlock starts, only to be interrupted by the doctor.
"You prick," John snaps at his insufferable chum, throwing the dirty flannel at the detective's head. "You set up protection for us before leaving," he accuses with fire in his eyes.
Rosie's head pops up at the change in his tone, and her father soothes her with a gentle pat. He watches as she goes back to her blueberries then continues the conversation.
Sherlock drops the flannel in the sink before stating, "Obviously, John. It was my only condition for taking on the network."
"How….never mind," John begins to question, only to change his mind. Sometimes it's just not worth the lengthy explanation.
"Come here, sweet girl," John utters softly, as he lifts her from the highchair. "Say bye bye to Uncle Sherlock."
Rosie waves as John holds her out to the detective who takes her into his arms. "Hello," he says warmly before following it up with, "Goodbye, Rosie. Have a good day." Sherlock inhales deeply before handing her back to John.
—-
November 20, 2013
John switches Rosie to his right side and knocks on the door of 221C.
Mya opens the door quickly with a smile. "Come on in, Dr. Watson," she invites pulling the door open wide.
He enters, setting Rosie on the floor with a kiss to the top of her head. "Love you, sweetie," he whispers, as she toddles off to play with her toys.
"Have a seat, sir. Mycroft said you may have some questions for me," she states with a smile settling into the rocking chair across from him.
His startled expression makes her chuckle, and he resituates himself uneasily.
"Of course, bloody Mycroft knows everything," John sneers, though more playful than angry. "I need to understand. You were our first choice and we've always been so happy with your work," he starts, unsure of what to actually ask now that the opportunity presents itself.
A saddened expression crosses her face as she gets up and retrieves an album from the bookcase. Mya pauses next to his chair before deciding to hand it over to him.
"Ten years ago, I was recruited to serve the crown and my country. You need to understand, I believed in what I was doing, and I wanted to serve. Mycroft's aid approached me. I was thirty-two, full of ambition to change the world," she begins quietly, meeting his eyes boldly.
John smiles over at her, responding, "This sounds very familiar, only mine was a Major James Sholto. Of course, he wasn't a major at the time. Please, continue."
"If you open that," she says, gesturing to the book in his hands. "You will see that I was married and eventually had children, twin girls," she relates, her voice trembling and tears in her eyes.
"They were the love of my life, much like Mary and Rosie are for you. I was undercover, going up against a dangerous man. My husband and children should have been safe. Mycroft Holmes had seen to it personally, but there was a mole in the organization, and he sold out my family," she explains as she fiddles with a little moon necklace.
"They were murdered," John finishes what she cannot. "My God, I am so sorry, Mya," he whispers respectfully.
"We burned the man to the ground, including his informant. Mycroft pulled me off UC and placed me where he could keep an eye on me," she responds evenly, in control of her emotions once again.
"You became one of his Antheas," John states obviously, and she smiles fondly.
"For a time, but it wasn't enough, so he gave me missions that I couldn't possibly get myself killed on no matter how hard I tried. Eventually, the pain lessened, and I needed to live again. I still wanted to be useful to the Crown. When this protection duty came up, he knew I would move heaven and earth to safeguard his family. Getting to watch over your daughter has been the highest honour, and I would love to keep my job," she acknowledges, her brown eyes warm with affection for his family.
"You've been invaluable, especially since we lost Mary. I would never consider replacing you with anybody, Mya. My new concerns have to do with your salary," John notes as he looks away somewhat embarrassed. "There's no way I'm paying you enough."
Mya smiles over at him and responds, "Dr. Watson, I earn my full salary from the Crown. The money you give me I use to do things with Rosie, as it should be."
"Thank you, Mya, for trusting me with your story," John adds, as he gets up from the chair and moves towards the door. "Bye, Bye, Rosie. Daddy loves you so much," he reminds her as he shuts the door and heads back up the stairs to meet Sherlock.
—-
November 27, 2013
"Good morning, John," Mrs. Hudson greets as she walks into the flat, holding the hand of a crying woman behind her.
The doctor jumps up from his chair as the landlady settles on the couch with the saddened woman.
"Let me grab you a cuppa," John declares as he moves into the kitchen, then returns momentarily with the tea in hand.
He waits a beat for her to calm before addressing the fact that the client may be disappointed.
"Sherlock's not here," he admits to the woman, who hiccoughs quietly.
"Martha said you could possibly help me and I've nowhere else to turn," she admits, focusing on John, through tear filled eyes.
Mrs. Hudson nods affirmatively, introducing them to each other. "This is my friend, Kate. Meet Dr. John Watson, one of my boys."
"What seems to be the problem?" John asks, giving her his full attention.
"Well, her son, Isaac, has gone missing again, but she thinks she knows where he is. She needs you to go with her because she certainly can't go to a crack house by herself," Mrs. Hudson relates, patting the woman's hand comfortingly.
"Of course not. Let me grab my bag, and we can go," the doctor states, as he crosses the room to pull out his medical satchel. "Are you good to drive? Would make things a lot easier."
Kate nods, getting to her feet. "I just need my boy back. He's been struggling since his father died," she admits, as they head out the door.
"As any boy would," John offers, as he follows her down the stairs to her vehicle.
They drive to an abandoned tenement where she pulls into the lot. Kate stops about a hundred yards from the door.
"Do you have a picture of Isaac, Kate? It would be better if I bring back the right boy," John asks, as she pulls one up on her phone and hands it to him.
"Sorry, Dr. Watson. I don't know where my brains are," she says in a sigh, shaking her head back and forth.
"They're on your son, which is right where they should be, and you can call me John," he acknowledges as she gives him a smile.
"Thank you, John," she rasps out, trying not to cry again.
He nods in reply. "You should be alright here, but if there's any sign of trouble, just go back to Baker Street, and I'll meet you there," the doctor informs her, as he reaches for the door.
John gets out of the car and grabs the tire lever from the back. "Mind if I borrow this?" He inquires and, receiving her nod, walks towards the entrance.
He pushes through the door, nearly knocking over a kid trying to stand guard.
"Oh, hello there," John greets the young man, as he surveys the surrounding area for any trouble. "I'm looking for Isaac Whitney. You know him?" The former soldier asks the young man who pulls out a flip knife.
"You need to go," the young addict says, punctuating the sentence with the blade.
John steps closer, his stance loose and ready for battle if it comes down to it. "Are you pointing out his location with that little thing?" He questions, gesturing toward the knife, after closing the gap considerably.
The young man glances away as John intended. The soldier grabs the kid's elbow, depressing the ulnar nerve, releasing the knife neatly into his right hand, where he quickly folds it down and puts it into his own pocket.
Quickly taking advantage of the younger man's shock, he gives a slight twist, spraining the kid's arm then shoves him down to the floor.
"You hurt my arm," the kid cries out, holding the offending limb close to his body.
John nods his head. "That I did, mate. I can't have you walking around threatening people with knives, now, can I? It's a sprain. Ice it, take some paracetamol and you'll be good as new in a few weeks," the doctor advises his new "patient" who glares up at him.
"Now, let's try this again. I'm looking for Isaac Whitney?" The patient doctor inquires without any malice.
"Upstairs," the young man answers, as John hands him the business card they use for the network. "Call me if there's any problems with your wrist."
He jogs up the stairs with a final glance behind him to make sure the kid doesn't do anything stupid.
Coming to a hallway, he pokes his head in one of the rooms, trying to see through the smoke, as he calls out for the kid who turns his head towards the door.
Making his way across the space, he opens the nearby window to get a little fresh air in the room and makes his way over to Isaac. Keeping his back against the wall, he lowers himself to the floor.
"Isaac Whitney, my name's Dr. Watson. Your mum's worried sick and sent me to fetch you," the doctor states as he takes the kid's pulse and respiration rates, then checks his pupillary reflex. Kid's high as a kite, but he should be alright. "Can you stand?" The doctor asks quietly in deference to the room's current occupants.
Isaac nods and tries to do just that. Thank God for suggestible drugs that will make this job a lot easier.
As he pushes up to stand, John glances to his right when he hears a familiar voice.
"Come for me too, Dr. Watson?" Sherlock asks from his position on the floor.
John's blood runs cold even though he knew this was coming. It was part of their insane plan after all.
"Bloody hell, Sherlock. What are you doing here? Up with you too, mate," John orders dragging the other man from the floor and pushing him towards the door.
"It's for a case, John," Sherlock hollers out, as he storms through the hallways and slams out the door behind Isaac.
John kicks the door out of his way. "Nothing justifies this, Sherlock. What case?" John shouts as he opens the car door and shoves his wayward flatmate into the back seat.
"Kate, looks like I may need a favour as well," John says, getting into the front seat after shoving Sherlock into the back and dropping the tire lever onto the floorboards. He pulls his mobile out of his pocket and dials Molly Hooper. "Hello, Molly. I need to meet you at the lab immediately. Code Scarlet," John commands before hanging up.
Kate places a warm hand on his arm with calm relief. "Thank you, John, for bringing my boy back," she whispers with tears clogging her voice.
John nods, seemingly too angry to answer her at this moment.
"Kate, meet the great Sherlock Holmes," John spits out angrily. "If you were anywhere near this again, you should have come to me," he tosses out, turning to look over the seat.
Taking a deep breath, the doctor exhales slowly in an effort to be more affable.
The grateful woman turns and stammers out a greeting before turning back to the wheel again and starting the car.
"Mind dropping us at St. Bart's hospital?" He asks then assures her when she nods, "I checked out Isaac and he should be able to just sleep it off."
"Thank you again, John. I don't know what I would have done without your help," she states gratefully, as she turns around to head towards St. Bartholomew's Hospital.
—-
Sherlock leaps from the taxi in front of Baker Street and sees the straightened door knocker. "Mycroft's here," he hisses, as he shoves through the front door. "It's for a case, for God's sake. Why are you here?" The detective questions heatedly as he shoves by the man on the stairs.
"My lot in life, brother mine," Mycroft says with a sigh. "One mustn't ignore a Code Scarlet from John."
Sherlock glances back at his flatmate angrily and crashes through the door. He drops sideways into his chair. Rolling his eyes at Anderson and that other one, he turns his back to the room to better ignore them.
"Anything?" Mycroft asks the two searchers, gesturing to the kitchen with his umbrella.
They shake their heads negatively before Anderson pipes in with, "We found a few nicotine patches hidden throughout the flat but nothing more serious than that."
"Oh? Where were they hidden?" Sherlock asks, having made his way into the kitchen, startling Anderson.
"Shouldn't you know?" Anderson fires back uneasily.
Sherlock just shakes his head disappointedly. "Wake up, Anderson. I'm not the one who hides them," the detective admits, then questions his brother, "How much longer is this going to take? I need a bath and I have a schedule to keep."
"Your meeting at CAM this afternoon?" Mycroft interrogates, gesturing for Anderson and the woman to leave. They hurriedly comply, leaving the door open behind them.
Sherlock huffs a disgusted sigh, then shoves his brother into the open door frame, wrenching his left arm behind his back with a twist.
"Stay out of my business, brother," the detective hisses in Mycroft's ear, adding just a bit more pressure before John steps into the picture.
"Sherlock, let him go and he will leave," the soldier states, placing the older man's dropped umbrella into his right hand.
The detective steps in a little closer before propelling his brother into the hall and slamming the door firmly behind him.
John shakes his head and looks at Sherlock with a critical physician's eye. The man looks exhausted and high but otherwise alright, so the soldier lets him go for his bath with a parting jab, "Try not to piss off too many people; we have enough to do today."
"Probably too late for that, John," he admits, rubbing his right cheek. "Remember Molly striking me repeatedly at the lab earlier when she ran the drug's test? May want to make a note not to get on Molly Hooper's bad side."
John nods his agreement, as the detective disappears into the loo.
Mycroft, once down in his car, raises all security protocols and scrambles all signals before pulling a very old-school note from his pocket. Written in a code they created as children, it simply translates: Mission Bramley a go.
—-
November 29, 2013
Sherlock enters the living space, dressed in his typical fare, ready for the next phase.
John takes a breath to speak but aborts the attempt when his friend shakes his head.
"Let's get some dinner," the detective suggests, grabbing his Belstaff and scarf before handing John his own coat.
Within minutes, they are out the door and down the stairs hailing a taxi.
"Park Grand Paddington Court," Sherlock tells the cabbie before turning his attention to John.
"Did you see the 
 extraordinary thing Magnussen did during his visit to Baker Street?" Sherlock gasps, unable to contain his excitement any longer.
John's eyes widen as he shakes his head at his flatmate. "It was kinda hard to miss him taking the piss in the flat, Sherlock," the doctor relates, scrubbing a hand over his face as he blows out a breath.
"He showed us the letters, John. They're here in London," the detective informs his doctor friend excitedly. "Oh, this will be grand. We just have a little stopover first."
The driver pulls over at the exclusive 4-star hotel and Sherlock pays the man, even leaving a nice tip in his excitement.
John follows at a more sedate pace. "Where exactly are we off to?" The doctor asks inquisitively.
"Magnussen's people were all over the flat. I don't want to chance they've left something behind other than the obvious. We are meeting a contact. It's about a four-minute walk," Sherlock directs as he steers them around several pedestrians.
They head northwest on Devonshire Terrace before turning left onto Cleveland Square. Within minutes they are standing in front of 23-24 Leinster Gardens.
Sherlock leads him into a tight corridor and around the corner into a small living are oddly decorated a bit like the living space at 221B.
John looks at his flatmate as though he's lost his mind, "What is this place?"
The detective tips his head to the side. "Sometimes I need to lay low. I won it in a poker game from the Clarence House Cannibal. She was quite a keen gambler," Sherlock reminisces momentarily before turning at the sound coming from the corridor.
John laughs before he realizes that the detective is serious. "Would've loved to see that game," the doctor mutters as he awaits the mystery informant.
"That should be my contact now," Sherlock states, before the tall man comes around the corner and John draws his gun.
"He's one of Magnussen's. He was at the flat earlier," John notes, his gun never wavering from the other man's head.
The easy-going man laughs as he keeps his hands out to the side saying, "Good to officially meet you, John. I've heard very little about you considering what a tight-lipped nutter JW is."
Sherlock places his hand gently on the doctor's shoulder. "John, this is Mac. He was my handler while I was away. Mac, this is my friend, John," the detective introduces past and present. "I'm sure Mac would be appalled if you shot him."
John lowers the gun slightly before deciding to keep it at the ready.
Mac hands Sherlock a small envelope which he promptly opens. "Keycard for the executive lift. I was only able to nick one, so don't let anything happen to it. He's a cagey bastard," the operative notes, keeping his eyes on the doctor and hands where he can see them.
"John? He's steady. He will only shoot you if you give him a reason," Sherlock explains, gesturing towards his friend.
Mac nods with a smile. "Good to know, but I was talking about Magnussen," the man elucidates.
"Have you found the location of the vaults?" Sherlock asks, taking a seat in the replica of his chair.
Mac shakes his head negatively. "He doesn't let any security into the house at all. We mostly have perimeter duty while at Appledore," he informs them, as he gestures towards a chair. Receiving an affirmative nod from the doctor, he sits down.
"He's supposed to attend a dinner tonight, so you should be clear after 7, at least for a few hours," the operative relates quickly and efficiently to his former teammate.
"Thank you, Mac. I was able to get a coded message to Mycroft," Sherlock informs both men. "Mission Bramley should have clearance by now."
Mac nods to let them know he's received his coded orders, then reaches out a hand which Sherlock takes. They shake and Mac smiles. "Good to see ya, kid. Really glad you didn't get me killed," Mac states as they finish shaking hands and the operative offers a friendly nod to John. Then he's gone.
John looks at his friend and sees him in a new light. Even after reading about everything he went through, meeting Mac has somehow made it seem more real.
"Thanks for coming back, Sherlock," John manages before putting away his Sig, preparing for the upcoming plan, and thinking he may be just as certifiable as his flatmate.
—-
Sherlock and John walk into CAM Global past the unattended desk and up the stairs.
Continuing to the executive elevator, Sherlock glances at John as he pulls out the pilfered keycard and accesses the lift. The doors open and they step on, grateful that security hasn't swarmed upon them.
"Don't say it," John warns as the lift takes them to the uppermost floor.
Disembarking, they wander into the open office space as John looks out over London.
"Nice view," the doctor comments as he turns towards Sherlock, who makes for the stairs.
"You check through the desk," the detective directs while climbing the stairs to the second level.
Moving down the hall, he makes note of everything of importance.
Coming upon Magnussen and one of his security men, Sherlock can't help but sigh.
"You might as well come in," Magnussen offers, "but, I'm afraid I can't help you. How did you make it this far?" The media mogul questions, glancing at his head of security who turns brandishing a gun.
"The letters, Mr. Magnussen, and this can all be over," Sherlock assures the man, stepping farther into the room, his hands spread.
Magnussen shakes his head, disappointment clear in his features, "Did you think it would be that easy?"
"He's trespassing, sir. Do you want me to call the police?" Mac asks, his eyes trained fully on the intruder.
"I think we can handle this inhouse. Take care of it," Magnussen commands, as he walks towards the other door. "Well, come on. We've not got all night, Maxwell."
Mac takes careful aim and shoots Sherlock centre mass before dropping the gun at his feet and walking out the door behind his boss.
The World's Only Consulting Detective seems to fall in slow motion as he lands on his back with a dull thud.
John's rifling through the desk when he hears the unmistakable sound of a gunshot.
"Sherlock," he shouts, taking out his Sig and flying up the stairs two at a time.
The doctor skids to a stop and drops to his knees next to his friend. When he sees the discarded weapon, he replaces his weapon and throws open the injured man's jacket grabbing the scarf to shove into the wound.
"Sherlock?" He prods as he increases the pressure and the detective groans in pain.
John's eyes close with relief, as he continues to render aid. Reaching into his pocket with his free hand, he dials 999 for an ambulance. "We need an ambulance at CAM Media, top floor," the doctor announces when emergency services answer, before dropping the phone to the floor.
"Sherlock, stay with me mate," he orders, as he automatically catalogues the make and model of the weapon. Reaching around his friend's back, he feels for an exit wound, both grateful and disappointed when he doesn't find one.
The detective moans with the additional pressure, causing John to wince sympathetically. "I know it hurts like a bitch, but you keep your bloody promise and stay with me," the doctor reminds his friend.
He pulls off his coat and jumper, balling up the jumper to soak up more blood. Placing the jacket as best as he can over the detective to help ward off shock, he continues pressing on the wound until the paramedics arrive.
The paramedic team enters the upper floor and, upon seeing the weapon, stop in their tracks.
"Shooter's gone. My name's Dr. John Watson," he begins as they enter the space and begin pulling out equipment.
"Oliver and Miranda, Doc. What have we got?" the male paramedic introduces, ready to get to work.
"Close range medium calibre GSW. Entry upper right abdomen, no exit wound. Airway's open, but we need to bag him. He's going into hypovolemic shock. Hand me that clot gauze and start a line," the doctor orders, as the paramedics kneel down to comply.
John takes the clotting bandages from Oliver and shoves them into the wound, causing his flatmate to cry out hoarsely.
"Line in," Miranda replies across from him as Sherlock's eyes begin to flutter.
"Low dose the morphine," the doctor orders and she readily complies.
"Sherlock, stay calm, we're going to move you and it's going to hurt," John tells his friend before turning to the medics, "Lift on three. Watch the lines. Three."
The medics lift him to the trolley, causing an involuntary shout from the wounded detective.
They start for the elevator, rolling over the bloody scarf and jumper, as they navigate to the stairs and make a mad dash for the ambulance.
—-
"Sherlock, we're losing you," John scolds as he continues care in the ambulance. Placing defibrillator pads, he connects the leads, just in case.
Miranda helps him stabilize the detective as they work continuously to control the bleeding. "Roll him," she warns when Sherlock spews up, and John uses his fingers to clear the other man's airway before bagging him once again.
"Shit, he's flatlining," the doctor gasps as Miranda administers the AED shock to keep his bloody flatmate's heart beating.
"Charging again," the medic announces before a second biphasic pulse pushes through Sherlock's body, causing it to arch off the cart.
"Push 75 mg lidocaine IV bolus," John orders, and she injects it immediately into the port.
Quiet fills the small cabin of the ambulance as they wait precious seconds for Sherlock's heart to start beating, then a steady beep provides the answer.
"Got him," John congratulates, as they continue working to get the detective's system regulated. "Hand me another bandage pack."
"Two minutes out," the driver hollers as Sherlock continues to fight for his life.
—-
Dr. John Hamish Watson staggers through the ambulance entrance and looks for the first abandoned room he can find. Pushing through a side door, he slides down to the floor in exhaustion, knowing that Sherlock is in good hands. He draws up his knees and drops his head against the wall, closing his eyes for only a moment.
Pulling out his mobile, his first call goes to Mycroft to inform him of the shooting. His second call goes to Mya.
"Hey, Mya. It's me. Sherlock's been shot by one of Magnussen's men, so I need you to be extra vigilant," he advises, wiping a bloody hand across his face.
"Of course, Dr. Watson. I will protect her with my life," she promises, causing John to relax significantly.
He hears the mobile shift around before the most beautiful sound reaches his ears. "Da Da Da Da Da Da," Rosie chants, causing him to tear up and laugh at the same time.
"Hi, baby girl. Dada loves you, sweetie," John replies, listening to her chew on the phone as she usually does before the signal drops. He chuckles, knowing she probably hung up on him.
"Dr. Watson?" Miranda interrupts his exhaustion as she steps through the door. "I didn't mean to intrude but wanted to let you know your friend's in the operating theatre."
She holds out her hand to help him up from the floor, and they walk out the door towards the waiting hall.
"You did an amazing job saving your friend's life," she praises as they enter the waiting area.
John winces at the comment, upset that his friend's life even needed saving. "Thanks for your help," he says gratefully, running his fingers through his blond hair, leaving it in a disarray.
"I don't think I would have been as calm working on someone I care about," she admits quietly, glancing over at him.
"War's a great teacher for that," John responds, not meeting her eyes as he takes in the room before choosing a chair in the corner.
—-
November 30, 2013
"So many people seem to like you," Magnussen purrs, as he runs his fingers up Sherlock's right arm tenderly, looking at the flower arrangements around the room.
The detective feels the touch, but his body will not respond to his requests to pull away.
"Amazing that you're still with us. You're a fighter, Mr. Holmes. I like that. Makes you even more valuable to me," the media mogul drones as he continues to touch Sherlock.
He applies gentle pressure to the bandage, causing pain to reverberate through the lanky man lying semi-conscious on the bed.
Sherlock fights to open his eyes, tries to pull away, but he cannot. There's just too much anaesthetic still in his system. His body remains completely unresponsive to his addled mind.
His eyes tear up with the effort. "Just a question and then I'll go. I wouldn't want to wear out my welcome. Who saves John Watson when you're otherwise occupied?" Magnussen whispers breathily against his ear.
The intimate contact nauseates the detective when he feels a light kiss press against the side of his head. "I own you, Sherlock Holmes."
The revolting touch disappears, the door closes, and Sherlock succumbs to the pain and darkness.
—-
Must get to John chants repeatedly through Sherlock's muddled brain. Spasms wrack his aching body. He tries to push towards consciousness, but the drug continues trying to pull him down to oblivion.
"Sherlock?" He hears the familiar smooth tenor voice break through the wall of pain surrounding him and relaxes slightly.
He groans as he shifts position in the bed, a minute gesture that rains inordinate amounts of pain through his lean body.
"That's it, mate. Wake up for me," John's voice commands, seemingly from a significant distance.
Sherlock tries to shake off the darkness, but the pull remains so strong.
"Can you squeeze my fingers, Sherlock? Just that. Squeeze my fingers," John nearly begs, holding his friend's hand warmly in both of his own.
The infinitesimal movement of Sherlock's lean fingers twitching in his own fills him with so much relief, his legs nearly fail to hold him.
"That's it, Sherlock. Keep fighting your way back," John's commanding voice allows for no argument.
The hand in his grips a little bit stronger, and a line of blue can be seen from the detective's eyes.
John Watson smiles before whispering, "There you are, Sherlock. Everything will be alright now."
"Up," Sherlock's hoarse voice barely carries to John's ears, but he begins to raise the bed very slowly.
The doctor looks at his friend sternly. "That plan was bollocks," John notes without amusement.
Sherlock just looks over at his flatmate and seeing the fear lurking behind the concern nearly undoes him.
John Hamish Watson seldom shows fear, especially to him. It certainly must have been very bad indeed.
His friend holds a cup of cool water up for him to take a few sips.
Gaining more equilibrium, as well as his voice, he whispers gruffly, "How bad?"
"We had to restart your heart in the ambulance," the doctor states, forcing Sherlock to close his eyes. "The surgeons had to start it twice more in the operating theatre."
This admission causes Sherlock's eyes to pop open.
"Sorry," the detective murmurs to the doctor's surprise, which shows readily on his expressive face. "Next time, I will plan better," he mumbles gutturally, his eyes closing of their own volition in fatigue.
"See that you do," John rejoins, patting the infirmed man's hand gently.
Sherlock debates the next sentence only a moment before he says, "Magnussen was here."
"I've been here nearly the whole time, Sherlock. Are you sure?" John inquires shakily, feeling like the bottom has dropped out of his universe.
"Absolutely, I can still feel his fingers and his breath," the detective relays, causing the doctor's eyes to flash dangerously.
John leans towards the bed, "He touched you?"
Sherlock nods without meeting his friend's eyes.
John's anger at his friend's vulnerability at the hands of this egotistical megalomaniac permeates the air around them.
"He threatened you," the detective whispers, finally meeting John's eyes.
The fair-haired doctor remains silent for a few moments as he takes in Sherlock's powerless expression. "We'll be more careful, but we'll get him," John vows, squeezing his friend's hand and laying it back gently on the bed.
—-
December 25, 2013
"Happy Christmas, Rosie," John says as he hands the nearly one year old sitting in his lap a present.
She giggles as she tears the brightly coloured paper from the package and throws it at Sherlock.
"Seriously, Sherylyn," the detective scolds without ire as he watches her with amusement.
She finishes with the paper and starts laughing and grabbing for the balls on the new toy, the B. Walkness Monster, a brightly coloured little pushcart. After pulling it closer, she excitedly sees Paddington Bear in a little Union Jack bag sitting in the middle of the toy.
She squeals, plucking the bear from the bag and putting it straight into her mouth.
John's blue eyes look glassy as he watches her excitement, saddened that her mother is not here to see it.
"John?" The detective questions, for a moment doubting his gift choice. "It's one of the most popular toys for this year," Sherlock informs his friend as Rosie crawls over into his lap.
"It's brilliant, Sherlock, and she loves it. I just wish her mum…" John admits quietly.
"Of course," the detective interrupts his melancholy.
Rosie hands the detective her Playskool Learnimals ABC Adventure Elefun, pushing the buttons and laughing with delight at the words it says.
"Open," she demands, pushing the box into Sherlock's hands as he tries to hand it back.
"Please," John adds, in an attempt to teach his child manners.
She looks up at the man holding her with big blue green eyes, and he smiles down at her. "You know you have to say it, so best to get it over with," Sherlock advises, giving her a stern look.
"Pwease," Rosie states with a pout, as John drags her back into his lap for a tickle.
"I never could get the boys to use those manners, once they were older," Mrs. Holmes says in a sigh as she comes back into the room from the kitchen. "You, John, have lovely manners," she notes as she pats his shoulder.
John smiles at his flatmate like he's the favourite son, causing Sherlock to roll his eyes.
"Military service drums that into you," the doctor states as he places Rosie into Mrs. Holmes' waiting arms. "So do nurses."
She coos at Rosie causing the baby to smile, little teeth just barely visible.
The doctor grabs his final package from under the tree and hands it to Sherlock which the man opens with the relish of a child.
Blue eyes widen as he takes in the object folded neatly within the box.
"I wanted to replace the one that came to ruin when you were shot," John tells him as he watches his friend run the soft blue scarf through his nimble fingers.
Clearing his throat, he rasps, "Thank you, John."
He sets the box aside, holding the knitted fabric, before getting up and placing it with his Belstaff.
"Sorry about the mess," John apologizes as he continues to gather up the colourful paper and ribbons.
"Think nothing of it. It's just wonderful to have a wee one in the house again," she states, nuzzling Rosie's cheek. "Christmas punch is in the kitchen."
John finishes the clean-up. "I think I may take a walk if you'll be okay with Rosie," the doctor tells his flatmate.
"We'll be fine," Sherlock assures him, taking the baby from his mother and walking with her around the room identifying things for her to name.
Rosie's quiet little murmurs as she repeats Sherlock's words soothe John in a way very few things have in the past year.
He tosses on his coat and steps out into the cold crisp air.
—-
Half an hour later, John steps back into the house to see Sherlock's parents kipping on the sofa.
Walking across the room, he sees Rosie asleep in her pram. He smiles and gives her a pat on the back before making his way into the kitchen.
Sherlock stands tall next to an unconscious Mycroft who sits bent over in his chair with his head resting on the table. The detective's hand moves in front of his older brother's mouth checking for breath.
Bill Wiggins. the young man from the drug den, sits on the kitchen counter, kicking his legs back and forth. "Hiya, mate," he greets John with a smile.
"Stay away from the Christmas punch," the detective advises, glancing up at his flatmate. "Wiggins is an excellent chemist," Sherlock praises the young man's talents.
The doctor's face draws up in confusion. "What's going on? Wait, did you drug my little girl, Sherlock?" John asks angrily, making his way to his friend.
"Of course not! Rosie's just napping and Billy will keep an eye on her, as well as everyone else, after we leave," the detective replies aghast at the suggestion that he would do that.
"Leave? Just tell me you haven't lost your bloody mind, Sherlock," John asks, looking directly into his friend's eyes.
Sherlock meets his gaze steadily,before replying, "There's always a chance. After all, we are going up against one of the most dangerous men in the world armed with a laptop that if things do not go as planned could see us arrested for treason."
Sherlock picks up Mycroft's laptop from where it sits on the table just as he hears the helicopter fly over the house.
"Time to go swimming with sharks, John. This will be very dangerous," the detective mentions, steering his flatmate towards the nearest door. "Did you bring your gun as I instructed?"
"It's Christmas, Sherlock. Why would I bring a gun for Christmas?" John asks his exuberant friend.
Sherlock nods, responding, "So, in your coat, then. Very good!" The detective hands John his coat as they walk briskly towards the landing chopper and climb inside.
—-
"Welcome to Appledore, gentleman," Charles Magnussen greets from his place on the plush sofa, gesturing for them to come in, but as there are no other chairs, not actually welcoming them to his space.
Sherlock looks over at the projection screen to see himself pulling John out of the bonfire. "So that was you. I suspected after the visit in the hospital," the detective admits, turning towards Magnussen seated so smugly.
John tracks his gaze and sees the scene before him. Sherlock literally fights through flames to save his life. The look on Sherlock's face humbles him, but the act of putting his life in danger angers him more than he can say.
"Bloody hell," John curses as he turns towards the mad man. "This how you get your kicks?" The doctor shouts, pointing at the screen. "You'd think that a man of your supposed intelligence and money would have better things to do with his time."
"The laptop," Magnussen points, reaching out his hands to accept it from Sherlock.
"The vaults," Sherlock counters, expecting the man to get up and show him.
Charles Magnussen holds the laptop in his arms and looks up at them.
"What does it matter now?" The millionaire asks in all sincerity. "I have what I want," he sibilates, while stroking the computer as some would a child.
Sherlock sighs heavily, responding to the man's question, "It's password protected. The vaults."
John tears his eyes away from the bonfire scene that replays on the projection screen. He can't afford to be distracted right now.
"Very well. Come along," Magnussen offers condescendingly, waving his hand as one would when showing a guest to their room.
He leads them to a set of double doors and gestures for Sherlock to open them.
Inside is a white space devoid of any colour at all. There, in the centre, sits a single office chair where Magnussen takes a seat and smiles smugly up at them.
"I know you were hoping to catch me unprepared, but unfortunately for you that's not going to happen. I make contingency plans for my contingency plans. There are no grand vaults under Appledore. The core of it is that it's a mind palace of my own creation," he explains, closing his eyes to envision the scene before him. "I believe you are acquainted with the term.
Sherlock closes his eyes as he realizes that he has made a critical error and underestimated the man before him.
John, seeing his friend's reaction, cocks his head to the side and looks at the man in the chair.
"I don't understand. You have nothing to prove anything you say, so why would anyone allow you power over them?" The doctor asks, leaning forward to take in the answer.
Charles Augustus Magnussen smiles and closes his eyes once again. "It's really quite simple. I control the information, therefore I control those involved. For example, in my mind palace, I walk directly to the file that I want to access. Ah, here we go," he says, moving his hands as if pulling a folder from a drawer.
"Mary Rosemund Morstan Watson, married to Bennett Morstan, then he died and along came John Watson, husband number two. A renowned chef at The Foyer. I ate there once, and I must say her dishes were nearly as delectable as she was," he states as if simply reading off the menu. "Past tense makes it so very tragic."
The doctor's hands clench into fists as the mogul pantomimes closing the file and putting it away. He reaches for the arrogant prick when Sherlock puts a supportive hand on his shoulder giving him pause.
"John, he's trying to get a reaction from you," Sherlock informs the doctor as he tries to simultaneously calm him.
Magnussen gets up out of the chair as he hears the blades of a helicopter whirring through the air over Appledore.
"Here comes big brother to save the day…" the media CEO announces. "Or not. Let's go onto the terrace and wait shall we?" he suggests, his lilting tones starting to anger John even more.
They step out onto the open veranda, and Charles Magnussen stops with a smile.
"I will let Lady Smallwood know that you do not have the letters," Sherlock says as John steps closer to the millionaire.
Magnussen laughs heartily and says, "It won't matter. It never does. I control the information and so I will continue to control her. Just as I control you, Mr. Holmes. You see, all I need is him."
He gestures towards John, who steps forward, one fist raised to punch the man in the face.
"You don't have me," John hisses, causing Magnussen to laugh again.
"Of course I do, Dr. Watson, because I have little Rosie. She's your pressure point and one that will do quite nicely. You'll let me do whatever I need to for that reason alone. It's just business, Dr. Watson," he finishes with a laugh.
John hesitates for a millisecond before drawing his gun and pointing it at Charles Augustus Magnussen's head.
The man steps back in surprise, causing John to adjust his aim.
John's clear blue eyes never leave Magnussen as he asks his friend, his voice louder with each word, "Sherlock, why do you suppose that everybody forgets that I was a bloody soldier?"
"I really don't know. It's obvious to me, but you need to take a breath and put down the gun," Sherlock states emphatically, taking a step towards his friend.
"Don't," the soldier warns his flatmate, cupping his right hand along the bottom of his left for additional support.
His index finger caresses the side of the Sig Sauer P226 as he moves it into position to fire.
"John! Rosie's safe and she will remain that way. Please don't do this," Sherlock entreats his closest friend. "Start small and just take three steps back. I'm not even going to ask you to lower the gun," the detective requests, holding his breath and hoping that John will comply.
Sherlock steps back around John, placing a hand on his shoulder, gently asking him to step off. "John, think about Rosie," the detective implores his friend.
John shrugs it off easily. "I am. This could all end right here, Sherlock. Think of all the pain he's caused," the soldier asks, his cold eyes never leaving Magnussen.
"It's just business," Magnussen states matter of factly, causing John to step forward as the sound of the chopper comes even closer.
Sherlock manages to grab John to keep him from moving any closer as the chopper comes around the side of the house, and Magnussen's head jerks sideways as he falls to the ground.
John reels in shock from the shot as Sherlock wraps an arm around his middle and removes the Sig from his hand.
"John, stop fighting me. I'm trying to keep us from getting shot. Kneel down," Sherlock orders as he sets the gun down to his side and falls to his knees. He releases his breath when he sees his friend has also complied.
"Sniper?" John questions, his hands raised in the air as Mycroft's military force storms onto the veranda.
"Most definitely," the detective answers, as he's shoved face down and zip tied by the military.
—-
December 26, 2013
"Twelve hours, Mycroft. Was it really necessary to debrief for twelve hours?" Sherlock asks his older brother as they enter 221B Baker Street.
John crosses the room quickly to pick up Rosie from Sherlock's mother. "Thank you, Mrs. Holmes," he offers with gratitude as he hugs and kisses his baby girl. "There's my girl," he whispers, inhaling her soft baby scent.
Sherlock crosses to his chair and sits down carefully as the past few days catch up with him.
"Getting old, brother mine?" Mycroft teases, pulling the chair from the desk to sit.
"Nobody sits. We're exhausted and everybody out," Sherlock insists, dragging himself to his feet so that he can lead them to the door. His mother stops, ruffles his hair. and he bends to allow her to kiss his cheek.
"If I find out who shot you," she threatens, placing her hand lovingly on his cheek.
"Yes, mother, I know. But it was for a case and I'm fine," he reassures her as he closes the door behind them.
He drops into his chair again, bringing his attention to John who continues to hold Rosie close to his heart.
"Wait. Did you actually get shot for a case? I heard what you told your mum," John asks, tilting his head and patting Rosie's back as she settles.
Sherlock sighs and folds his hands beneath his chin. "I knew there was a chance it could happen. It was a most treacherous case," he divulges before finishing, "It wasn't part of the plan, if that's what you mean."
John studies his friend and determines that Sherlock must be telling the truth.
"Let's take it easy the next few weeks and see if we can catch a breath," John suggests, causing another long-suffering sigh from the detective.
"No cases?" Sherlock questions incredulously, his eyes showing his displeasure at the thought.
John chuckles at the horror on his flatmate's face. "Let's stick to cases under a seven for now and see how that goes," John concedes, smiling at his flatmate over a sleeping Rosie.
Sherlock smiles at his friend and offers his own compromise, "One seven or my brain will rot right out of my head."
John laughs out loud, careful not to wake the baby. "Done. You're something else, you know," he offers, then his expression turns serious. "Thank you."
Sherlock considers his response carefully before he gives his friend a genuine smile, "For you? Anytime, John."
