I.
Mr and Mrs Holmes stand at their house entry to welcome two businessmen – grim-looking men in formal suits.
Business partners of their son, eight-year-old Mycroft Holmes, who's standing beside them, equally formally dressed and serious.
"Well," Mrs Holmes gestures towards the living room, "would you like to sit down? I understand you and Myc have some issues to discuss, and I'm sure it would be –"
"
."
Standing in the foyer, the small group turn their heads towards the source of the new voice. At the end of a side passage, a toddler with dark curly hair is sitting on a toilet and glaring at them.
"Oh, I'm truly sorry," apologises Mrs Holmes as her eldest dutifully moves down the hall, wearing a long-suffering expression. "Sherlock has recently started toilet-training himself, but I'm afraid he's not entirely grasped the concept of closing the door." She smiles encouragingly at the visibly embarrassed bespoke-suited men. "He's very advanced for his age, really. I'm sure he'll get it in no time."
II.
"...it's just that, what kind of man manages to leave a fridge door 
? These things have automatic closing mechanisms, for god's sake."
John is storming around the kitchen, dumping foul-smelling boxes, opening windows, wiping up stinky puddles that have gathered by the fridge, and all the while getting a growing feeling that this domestic scene of seething and reprimanding is suspiciously familiar, although he can vaguely sense he's not used to being on the delivering side. It's not until he wipes his hands sharply on a dish towel that he recognizes his terse, irate movements – and the general air surrounding him – from his 
.
"If so, it should have closed by itself, shouldn't it?"
Sherlock is sitting on the counter, dangling his legs petulantly and looking very much like a grumpy, caught-out kid, which only fuels John's mental image. Before he can stop and examine the situation properly, he finds that this mouthy response from the individual who's currently being subjected to 
rightful scrutiny definitely sparks something inside him. His mother would never have tolerated it, so he shoots back: "Well, most people usually give it a little encouraging push, you know, as a kind gesture of goodwill."
"
?" repeats Sherlock in disdain. "I'm not 
."
"- I mean 
, it's almost impossible to leave the door open even deliberately, and that slight elbow-or-heel nudge – it's like an instinct acquired by anyone in modern civilization –"
"Not all of us are imbecile peasants, programmed to perform routine chores," says Sherlock haughtily.
"Well, guess what, your majesty. Your delicate blue-blooded customs just cost us pretty much everything we had in the fridge, not to mention the godawful smell in here, so you'll toe my line now, mister."
Oh god, he's totally turning into his mother. And when did his hands end up on his hips?
"Here's what'll happen. I'll yell, for quite a while, 'cause I need to get it out of my system. You'll listen, and nod, and then say you're sorry – and I don't care if you're bloody not," he interjects as Sherlock's mouth opens defiantly. "And then, you'll drag your sulky arse out with me to Tecso's, and 
 deal with the nasty, scheming self-service check-outs, since we're replacing the whole fridge's contents. 
including the body parts," he adds firmly as Sherlock's eyes light up with hope. "In fact, stocking body parts in the fridge is forbidden for the next month." That's a good equivalent to grounding, right? "Christ, these damned melted fingers stink worse than the sour milk." He drops a whole bag of them into the garbage can right next to Sherlock, who's forced to wrinkle his nose. Maybe that's also why he stays silent, wisely deducing that he'll suffer more from the smell if he opens his mouth.
It suits John just fine, as he fills his lungs and sets off on his Great Tirade. It's a bit disappointing, to be honest, as he's already used up most of his good points earlier, and it doesn't even come close to the level of Wanda Watson's tongue-lashings, but she never cared about repeating herself, so he does that, and plenty of her arm-waves, too, which give a nice dramatic touch.
Sherlock keeps his eyes stubbornly down, fixed on his lost precious body parts – teenager-John was always required to keep eye-contact during the entire angry speech – but he stays perfectly quiet and John considers it a victory.
Admittedly, Sherlock doesn't look even remotely remorseful, and his pointed eye roll would never go unmentioned by John's mum – in fact, it would've caused a whole new lecture – and what he mutters when John finally stops to suck in some air sounds very far from "sorry", but it's muffled enough that John can pretend he didn't hear it; so he counts that as a win, too.
He'd never had the last word with his mother.
Later, when they're back and have finished putting all the groceries away, John still huffing and muttering to himself the way his mother always did. Until Sherlock decides to shut him up with a kiss, plastering him to the fridge door – making it close with a determined, thorough, very satisfying 
.
It's not exactly the execution John's been aiming for, and in fact, he's far from being certain that the lesson's actually sunk in, but John's ma didn't raise no fools so if that's what he's got, he'll take it without complaint.
III.
John Watson is making tea. While the ritual itself is set and traditional, two main types can be distinguished. One is "chilled-out Englishman in his natural habitat". The second is "fuming Englishman trying to calm down."
Right now he's trying, really trying, not to reach the radical stage of "Englishman turning American and re-enacting the Boston Tea Party because he's pissed".
"...all I'm saying, Sherlock, is that it'd be nice if once in a while you did something 
 in the kitchen. Cleaning, washing the dishes, 
you know, the original purpose of kitchens
Instead, you only load the table down with poisonous experiments and load the fridge up with body parts. That is, of course, when you're not forgetting to 
."
"That happened 
."
"Yet somehow 
didn't happen even once."
Out of logical excuses, Sherlock takes to fighting dirty. He subjects John to his trademark unjustly-accused-and-deeply-hurt look, pouting in a way John refuses to find adorable.
John digs in his heels and tries to stand firm in front of those big baby blues despite a slight buckling of his knees. "Now don't you give me that face, we're having a serious conversation here. I mean it, Sherlock."
"Fine!" The Innocent Child look switches at once to Petulant Toddler mode as Sherlock grabs two mugs from the cabinet and slams them on the table. "Here! Helped!" Stomping his feet, he storms out of the kitchen.
"That's hardly the poin– 
!" John turns sharply around, only to have his forehead immediately hit the cabinet door Sherlock left wide open.
"What? What!" Sherlock sticks his head back into the kitchen, then hurriedly pulls it away as the look on John's face reveals he's willing to slam the next door on Sherlock's neck to show him how it's done.
IV.
"Yoo-hoo!"
Mrs Hudson's familiar greeting follows two quick knocks that come, John suspects, more out of habit than actual politeness, and certainly don't indicate any inhibitions.
As if to prove the assumption, he hears the front door's squeak, followed by the usual sound of steps, endlessly energetic, hinting at bossiness and not a little nosiness.
John freezes.
"Boys?" Mrs. Hudson undoubtedly peeks into the kitchen, her steps falter, and then they are getting closer, the sound suspiciously sharp.
John closes his eyes harder. "Sherlock, please tell me you shut the door when you came in," he pleads, unable to muster the courage to confront his alarmingly well-founded guess.
His lover cuddles closer in, burrowing his face in John's neck. "What door." The muffled, unfocussed tone heralds nothing good.
"The door to this very room. Our 
. In which we are currently lying very naked, on top of the covers."
Paralysed by the upcoming disaster, John doesn't even try moving. Not that he would've made it anyway, being efficiently pinned under the weight of a sleepy consulting detective who lacks any shred of modesty, mental or physical.
The steps in the hall come to a halt, making Sherlock's answer irrelevant.
"Boys, are you–– 
."
Half-shut-down with panic, John's cognitive abilities struggle to mentally scan over the Oxford Textbook of Medicine, as he tries to remember if humiliation is a possible cause of death. He covers his face with his hand, which is odd, come to think about it, considering the other places that might be higher priority to be covered. "Mrs Hudson…"
"It's quite all right, darling. Nothing to be ashamed of. I'll just pop back later."
"There's absolutely no need for you to do such a thing. Especially since the situation is unlikely to change and considering how redundant – not to mention 
– your presence would be." Sherlock, it seems, has picked this moment to show signs of life, expressing his usual aristocratic condescension. Which seems entirely out of place, frankly, considering how 
his state is at the moment.
"
" John's definitely reached a critical stage in the illness he's quickly cataloged as "terminal death as a result of being stripped of every vestige of self-respect".
In contrast, Mrs. Hudson appears absolutely at ease, practically 
fondly, as he discovers when he peers between his fingers.
She even closes the door behind her, most considerately, although John can distinctly hear her mumbling: "'Needing a second bedroom', my arse."
V.
Sherlock sits in his parents' living room, and as was bound to happen at some stage of the visit, he's forced to retire to his Mind Palace in search of his collection of calming, meditation-like memories:
And another trick – that'd worked ever since he was a baby, if you take Mummy's word: reciting the elements in the periodic table to the Can-Can melody.
He's interrupted (in the middle of "Halogens and Alkali react aggressively", a personal favourite) when John leaves the kitchen, where he was helping Mummy with breakfast.
"Sherlock?" John's voice makes Sherlock open his eyes at once. It's The Tone. The tone John uses only when doing his best to stay calm, but when he's dangerously close to exploding. "Where's Hamish?"
Sherlock looks around. Scattered on the carpet there are toys, a few books, a bottle and two pacifiers, but no sight of the baby himself. "Mm. Not here?" He does so loath to state the obvious, but sometimes John needs the extra help.
"I can see he's not here. The question is why, and more importantly why don't you know where he 
, considering you were supposed to 
." John's voice gradually rises, losing restraint.
"Relax, John. He's a one-year-old human. He has no ability to simply disappear, and his mobility's awfully limited. He can't have gone far."
"Then 
?" It's John's 
voice, which means he's on the edge of hysteria. And also, that Sherlock 
 really better get to the point.
Sherlock closes his eyes to reconstruct: "Well, he was right here, practicing his dawn crawl. My mother was fretting insufferably. You bullied me to go out 'for some fresh air'. I went out, then came back – because breathing is 
, John – Hamish was still here, he turned towards me when I got in – he's extremely perceptive, John – and then… Aha!"
Sherlock's head jerks towards the side door to the garden, which is, indeed, wide open. He and John leap towards it simultaneously.
Just past the threshold they find their baby, who's crawled straight into a patch of ground that's wet from last night's rain. He seems quite gleeful, smearing the cold, slippery stuff on his face and laughing.
John lets out an irritated sigh and takes a step forward, but Sherlock grabs his arm. "What are you doing?"
John eyes him oddly. "Well, I intend to get our child back inside the house, after you – with unfathomable irresponsibility – let him out, which is the reason he's currently wallowing in the mud."
"
!" Sherlock sounds horrified. "John, our son is most definitely not doing anything like that."
John raises an eyebrow. "Isn't he? I know it must hurt some very delicate capillaries of inbred gentility, but we're both looking at the same sight here, so I'm just curious to know – what would 
 call that?"
"He's sampling the local soil!" A delighted smile spreads over Sherlock's face as he proudly watches the baby.
John opens his mouth to speak, thinks better of it, and goes back inside the house. He pointedly closes the door behind him.
+1
Hamish Watson-Holmes, to the surprise of anyone familiar with his parents' adventurous characters, is a quiet, dreamy boy. More than anything, he likes sitting outside on his own, watching the street and daydreaming. His parents reluctantly allow it, as long as he doesn't go beyond the fourth of the seventeen stairs, where he's also under the protection of a security camera and a personal bodyguard patrolling the area in disguise (a gift Hamish unknowingly received from his uncle on the day he was born).
It's a rare sunny Saturday morning and Hamish is manning his station, Sherlock's doing the same perched on the sofa, and John's messing around in the kitchen preparing lunch, when there are several assertive knocks on the front door. John goes to answer it.
"Hello– Hamish?"
The edge in his voice makes Sherlock bristle instinctively, put down his violin and cross the living room to stand behind his husband.
On their threshold there's a woman, one of those people whose appearance radiates such blunt and in-your-face aggressiveness that even the deductions about them feel somewhat violent as they shoot up in his mind. He's aware, though, that her thin veil of fastidiousness would trick most people (dim, dense idiots) into considering her well-mannered and composed.
However, even most people would notice the large dirt stain on her skirt as it stands out in comparison to her style of dress, which is on the wrong side of the border between elegance and nouveau riche.
Sherlock notices that and more, but currently he's focused on the woman's fingers, that clutch Hamish's hand in a raptor's grip (a raptor with long, artificial, painted nails).
"I take it this is your child?" says Vulture-Face with unpleasantly officious. If she had a beak, she'd undoubtedly have clicked it.
A muscle tightens in John's jaw. "That's right. Do you mind letting go of his hand."
Bird-Brain does, although somewhat unwillingly and probably mostly because John's piercing glare suggests his next step will be karate-chopping her arm, despite his polite tone.
As soon as her hold loosens, Hamish pulls his arm free and jumps inside to take cover behind John, clinging to Sherlock's leg. Sherlock's hand immediately drops to his son's curls, drawing the childish head closer in a protective gesture.
"Are you aware that he's kicking over planters for his pleasure, putting innocent passers-by in grievous danger?" Plastic-Surgery-Disaster demands sharply.
"
 
?" John still sounds way too civil for Sherlock's taste, but he leaves him to manage the social interaction and settles for sending a murderous glare of his own.
Hamish buries his face in Sherlock's trousers. "It was a mistake," he whispers, and Sherlock picks him up, allowing Hamish to hide his face in his neck and settle into the safe haven of his father's arms, over 10 inches taller than Ridiculous-Stilettos.
"It's all right, Mish," John says steadily, his eyes fixed on the ruffle-feathered creature in front of him.
"It's 
all right," she snaps.
Silicone-breast – and why would an avian creature even need those – breaks into a dramatic description, from which one can – with some effort – extract the facts.
Hamish, so it appears, was caught up in his imagination and waving his pirate sword a bit too enthusiastically, hitting a flowerpot on the nearby stair. (Flowerpots are a recent addition to 221 Baker Street, one of Mrs. Hudson's attempts at making the place look a bit more homey and 
. They've been grudgingly accepted by Sherlock, only after he made sure none of the plants were poisonous and that no explosives were hidden in the soil). The said pointless, not-even-toxic plant then rolled down the stairs and broke apart by the woman's legs just as she passed by, spraying her with wet, dark potting mix.
"Well, I can see your distress, and we're willing to fully recompense you for any damage caused, but I believe it's no more than an unfortunate accident–"
"
? This… this 
 was planning it, timing it for the exact second I passed down the stairs!"
"He's 
." John sounds like he's clinging to the remains of his composure.
"That's no excuse! This child is a ruffian, a vandal, a danger to the public – a future criminal!" The grating voice becomes a shriek.
Turning red, John opens his mouth, but Sherlock's ahead of him, using the tone Lestrade has once described as "languidly dipping you in acid".
"I can see that you're on the verge of your third divorce, and that your children cut any connection with you after the second one, possibly because of your ill-tempered drunkenness but more likely because you're simply a malicious person. You're desperate to maintain an upper-class façade, which can be seen in both your tastelessly over-expensive clothes and your obnoxious self-righteousness. You might want to find a better focus for your unhappiness given that your current spouse is cheating on you with both your personal medium and your manicurist, so I suggest you head home and catch him in the act, instead of further delaying unleashing your accumulated frustration on children."
And with the last word, Sherlock closes the door with an echoing slam.
