'John!' Sherlock shouted up the stairs at his flatmate, 'do you want a cookie?'
'No, I'm good, thanks for asking though' came the answer.
Moving the experiment he was doing aside (a very interesting one on the viscosity of blood at different temperatures) the detective set about putting a cookie on a plate and putting it in the microwave. After moving the pan of loose change they kept in there for emergencies, of course. He guessed at a time to put it in for, cooking wasn't his strong point. Pressing the button for one minute, he went to go and get himself a glass of water. He'd been trying to remember to eat more frequently as John kept nagging him about it - 'just something small every three hours, Sherlock, that's all I'm asking' - well it was hardly his fault he didn't feel hunger.
He heard John clattering down the stairs and deduced that his best friend wasn't very happy about something.
'Why in hell do I smell burning, Sherlock?'
Ah, that was what it was.
Sherlock turned around from the sink to see a small plume of white smoke wafting from the microwave. He strode over to it and threw open the door. A column of thick, white smoke poured out.
'What did you do, Sherlock' John's voice was calm, dangerously so.
'I attempted to heat up a cookie' he tried to keep his voice even, although in his mind it was very funny.
'And you nearly set the bloody flat on fire!'
'I didn't mean to'
John half ran over to the windows in the living room and threw them open. Sherlock took the now gently smoking cookie out the microwave and put it on the windowsill to cool off.
'How long did you put it on for?' he demanded
Sherlock swallowed, 'just a minute'
John turned around, trying very hard to keep a straight face and said, 'a minute? Jesus, Sherlock, it only needed about 30 seconds, if that.'
Sherlock turned around, ostensibly to check for damage to the microwave, but really to stop John from seeing him crease up.
'I'll try to remember that next time, honest'
He heard John come to sit at the table and assumed that he would have to too.
Sitting down, Sherlock asked 'can I laugh, is it something that would be considered funny by you?'
John sighed, 'if this wasn't the third time you've nearly or have set something on fire in the flat this fucking month, then yes this would be considered funny, but as it stands Sherlock, I'm very, very pissed off. You're a lucky git that you didn't destroy the thing, cos you'd have had to pay for it.'
'In my defence, I didn't know it was going to do that.'
John ran his hand through his hair, 'how the fuck did you not know it would do that? Your special interest is chemistry, hell you've got a bloody PhD in it. It's simple arse fucking chemistry - make the thing too hot, thing burns.'
Sherlock leant back on his chair and rolled his eyes, 'yes John, but we've talked about this, my special interest is forensic chemistry and its applications in law, not food science. I have no interest in cookery, I'm not Mrs Beeton.'
'It's not shitting cookery, you twat, it's the basics of microwave usage. How in the name of all that is holy have you managed to go through your 35-odd years of existence and never learnt how to use a sodding microwave?'
By way of reply, Sherlock stood up, walked to the window and picked up the very black cookie. He picked it up and knocked it on the side table. Looking up, he caught John looking at him,
'It's burnt'
That was apparently John's last straw as he started giggling like a schoolboy.
'Am I allowed to laugh now then?' asked Sherlock.
John shook his head, wheezing slightly, and said, 'just chuck it in the green bin and grab yourself another one. Don't put it in the microwave, for god's sake. Keep the windows open for another half hour. I'm going to have a shower, bye.'
Sitting down, Sherlock took another cookie and bit into it. He'd have to ask John later what was so funny, as surely simple observations can't be that amusing?
