"What are you doing here, Freak?" Donovan crossed her arms over her chest as she glared at the two boys from her seat at Hopkin's desk.
"Oh, Donovan, he's just a kid!" Hopkins said with a laugh. She closed the case file she and Donovan had been working on and smiled at them. "What 
 you guys doing here?"
John gave them a sheepish grin, wet hoodie stretching over his shoulders as he shrugged. He made himself comfortable on the edge of Lestrade's desk, which resided in front of Hopkins'.
"Sherlock picked me up from football practice, and we were going for a walk. Figured we would stop in and see if there were any errands we could run for Lestrade."
"You came all the way down here in a rainstorm because Sherlock was bored?" Hopkins translated, shaking her head in amusement.
"John wouldn't run any of my experiments with me!" Sherlock said dramatically, throwing himself down on Lestrade's chair, legs over the armrest. He shook his head, curls flinging water droplets around him with the movement.
"I refuse to play guinea pig. The last time I did, I ended up passed out on your floor for an hour!" John threw his hands up in the air, glaring at his friend.
"It was 45 minutes, John, don't be so dramatic," Sherlock snorted, rolling his eyes.
"Mycroft had to have one of his people look me over because we couldn't go to the A&E without causing a national crisis!"
"He's even more of a drama queen than you are."
Hopkins hid a smile at their exchange, "Sorry, boys, Lestrade is out on a case."
"No, he's not," Sherlock said, tone bored. His eyes trained on the front door of the Yard.
"What—"
Donovan's phone vibrated on the desk beside her. "Donovan." She listened for a moment, nodding her head, eyes widening in surprise. "See you in a minute." She jumped up from her seat and smoothed down her blazer. "That was Lestrade. They caught Alfred Jones ten minutes ago."
"That's my boy!" Hopkins grinned. "After they couldn't make the charges stick last time, I bet this feels twice as good!"
John cocked his head to the side, "Who is Alfred Jones?"
"Second in command of the Kirkland Crime Syndicate," Sherlock leaned his head back so that he could meet John's eye. "The Kirkland Crime Syndicate is—"
"I know what the Kirkland Crime Syndicate is, Sherlock!"
"Lestrade has been working with my brother for the last few years to gather hard evidence on him that would link him to the more
 crimes. I heard Mycroft and him talking in the living room yesterday. They finally gathered enough to put him away for good."
"You need to stop spying on your brother and Lestrade. It's bordering on creepy." John said with a shake of his head. "Not to mention, the last time you caught them… in the act, you called me at three in the morning with nightmares." John pressed his hand to his chest, "And then 
 had nightmares."
The doors of New Scotland Yard opened to reveal Jones, with Lestrade and Mycroft on either side of him and an officer in front of and behind him.
John grinned, "They're so cool."
Sherlock scoffed, "Hardly. Anyone with half a brain would have made the charges stick the first time." He smirked at his brother, wincing when the elder Holmes tapped him on the head with his umbrella as he passed. "
" Sherlock rubbed his head and glared at his brother's back.
Lestrade handed the keys over to an officer, watching as they led Jones downstairs to the cells before turning to the crowd. He grinned sheepishly as the crowd erupted in cheers. The lights flickered dangerously.
John showed up at Mycroft's shoulder, ducking under his arm to get a good look at Lestrade. "Congratulations!" John bounced on his toes, stopping only when Mycroft put a steadying hand on his shoulder. "How'd you do it?"
"We got a tip from an informant that Jones was back in London— apparently, he had been in the States until about a month ago. We tracked him to the local 
—"
"C'mon, John. This is so boring," Sherlock whined in his ear, pulling on John's damp sleeve. "I've got Mycroft's wallet. Let's go to the arcade."
"Shh!" John batted his hand against Sherlock's shoulder to get him to be quiet. "I'm missing the story." He slid his hand into Sherlock's coat pocket, pulled out the wallet Sherlock had stolen and handed it back to Mycroft without taking his eyes off Lestrade.
"— I couldn't have done it without Mycroft." Lestrade looked back to smile brightly at the man behind John.
"Please, Inspector, it was all you," Mycroft said modestly, causing Sherlock to scoff. He turned to glare at his brother, tapping him on the head again with his umbrella again. "Do behave, Sherlock."
"Damn it, Sherlock! I missed the entire story." John turned to Sherlock, eyebrow raised and arms crossed over his chest. "You don't even 
 the arcade. We will be there five minutes before you claim you're "bored", and we will wind up back at your house running another experiment within the hour." John shook his head. "I 
 the games you play."
"So why don't we just save both of us the trouble and just go straight there?" Sherlock suggested, causing John to growl in frustration.
"Dimmock, it must suck that Lestrade did what you couldn't do!" Donovan teased the man standing off to the side.
Dimmock smiled good-naturedly, "Made my life a lot easier. Can't say I'm complaining."
Amused murmurs rose through the crowd when Lestrade winked at him, "Always happy to help, Dimmock."
"DI Lestrade, Mr Holmes, may I see you in my office, please?" Chief Superintendent Sanders called from his office on the third floor.
Lestrade looked over to Mycroft, his eyebrow-raising, when he noticed the blank expression on his friend's face. Much like John knew Sherlock, Lestrade knew Mycroft and was immediately suspicious.
John took the opportunity to grip Mycroft's sleeve and ask him questions in rapid succession about how they caught Jones. Mycroft could barely open his mouth to answer before John asked the following question.
When they finally reached the Chief Superintendent's office, Mycroft was slightly out of breath from answering all of John's questions.
"DI Lestrade, Mr Holmes…" The man looked down at Sherlock and John, the two boys blinking up at him innocently. "Little Holmes and friend—" John and Sherlock wrinkled their noses at the titles. "I'd like you to meet Harris and Lewis, the leads of the CMA team."
Sherlock, and John. I'd like you to meet Harris and Lewis. They are the leads of the CMA team.
"Good work, Lestrade, Holmes." The men nodded their heads in acknowledgement.
Sherlock studied the two men standing beside the Chief Superintendent with narrow eyes before they widened in surprise, a huge grin crossing his face. "You're taking away Lestrade's case!? Oh, that's hilarious."
"Quiet, Sherlock!" Mycroft hissed just as John put a hand over Sherlock's mouth and pulled him back to stand by him.
"That's a thinking thing, not a saying thing. We've worked on this!" John hissed in his friend's ear before removing his hand from Sherlock's mouth.
"Don't try to change me, John."
"Arse."
Lestrade looked down at Sherlock, searching the boy's face before moving onto Mycroft's. It was slight, but he could see the guilt that flashed on the older Holmes' face. He would have never caught it had he not grown as close to him as he had.
"It's quite a night you've had, DI Lestrade." Lestrade turned to Harris, stance defensive as he stared him down. "Alfred Jones has been a high profile target of ours for a long time."
"I'm aware, which is exactly why I've been working on it with Mycroft." Lestrade crossed his arms over his chest. "Why exactly are you here?"
"We're here for Jones."
"Pardon?"
"He will give us all of the information he knows about the Kirkland Syndicate, and we are going to put him in witness protection."
Lestrade turned to Mycroft, hands clenched into fists. "You knew about this!" He accused, shaking his head at Mycroft. "How could you?"
"I'm sorry, Detective Inspector, but Jones' testimony could profoundly affect dismantling the syndicate."
Lestrade laughed, but it was void of emotion. "I've personally devoted countless hours in pursuit of this guy— because he has hurt many people, might I remind you— only for him to live out his life comfortably somewhere in the isles of Ireland, Wales… are you fucking kidding me?" Lestrade threw his hands into the air, "All that harm, and he gets to go scot-free?"
"I understand your frustration," Mycroft said softly. The grip on his umbrella was the only true sign of his distress.
"Piss off, Mycroft. I'm done with you."
"Detective Inspector Lestrade, control yourself, or you will find yourself on desk duty for the foreseeable future!"
"I'd probably be better off. At least then, no one can take credit for my work. Why should I waste my life catching criminals if we are just going to let them go! It makes no sense."
"Well, solving cases is fun," Sherlock interjected, only to be kicked in the shin by John. "Only sometimes!"
"Read. The. Room."
Sherlock grumbled but leaned into his brother when he peered up at him from under his curls and noticed the barely masked devastation on his face.
"Why don't you take a nice little walk down to the cells and get us Jones?" Lewis asked mockingly. "That would be a great use of your time."
"Why don't you kiss my ar—"
"Detective Inspector Lestrade!"
Lestrade bit his lip and turned to leave, stopping only when he was beside Mycroft. "You know, I'm not even upset they're taking the case. I'm upset that you lied to me, Mycroft," he whispered the words, only making his voice loud enough for Mycroft to hear.
"I didn't technically—"
"Cut the semantics, Holmes. Lying by omission is still lying. You knew, and you should have told me. You're my friend." Lestrade sighed heavily, "Or, I thought you were."
Mycroft's face crumbled, unable to keep up his stone façade. "I was told not to tell you."
Lestrade scoffed, shaking his head. "Yeah, so you could use me as your little puppet."
"Gregory! I swear it wasn't—"
"I'm so tired of your bullshit, Mycroft." Lestrade's voice was small, frail as he stormed out of the room, swinging the door with such force it slammed against the wall, rattling the windows and filing cabinets that lined it. "I should have killed him when I had the chance." He muttered to himself. He reached up and knocked over files that sat on top of one of the filing cabinets, watching them slide across the tiled floor before making his way downstairs to the holding cell.
Sherlock giggled. "It usually takes me about 15 minutes to get Lestrade 
 annoyed!" He bit his lip when Mycroft and John glared at him. "Then I do it again when I'm bored."
"Literally, what the fuck is wrong with you?" John snapped.
"Nothing! I just thought it was funny," He was still standing next to Mycroft. As he talked with John, he slipped his hand into his brother's pocket to grab his hand, where it was trembling. Sherlock pressed to his brother's side to hide the connection, his eyes widening dramatically.
John was about to retort when the lights shut off, plunging New Scotland yard into complete darkness.
"What a night for a new moon," Sherlock muttered, yelping when John knocked into him and grabbed his free hand, squeezing it tightly in his own. "John, you're hurting me." Sherlock hissed, trying to shake his hand out of his friend's as he quickly started to lose feeling.
"Why are the lights out?" John asked. Instead, he had let go of Sherlock's hand and clung to Mycroft's free side. "I hate the dark. Nothing good ever happens in a place where criminals are collected, and it's impossible to see."
"The storm must have blown a fuse. There's nothing to worry about, John." Mycroft said quietly, patting the boy on the head and squeezing Sherlock's hand where it still resided in his coat pocket.
Frantic murmuring rushed through the crowd as officers began giving orders for civilians to stay low to the ground.
Sherlock looked up at his brother, eyes wide as the lights came back on.
Hello All!
So, this is strongly based off the season 3, episode 11 of Psych 'Lassie did a Bad Bad Thing'. One of my favourite episodes. I was watching it the other day and wondered how Sherlock and the gang would react if something similar happened to Lestrade.
It's teenlock because, honestly, I like writing big brother Mycroft with Sherlock as a teen. He's a lot more fun to write that way, in my opinion. It also means I need to get creative about how John and Sherlock solve the case, which is always a good challenge.
I hope you enjoyed the first chapter! Let me know what you think.
Iam_Sherlocked
