 Lady Sam Mallory
 Boys not mine; I just borrow them from time to time when the muse moves me.
 My Beta Queen, Zoe, without whom I'd be doomed to a life of grammatical inaccuracy. You are truly my conductor of light. Thank you for nearly over 30 years of friendship.
For my beautiful friend, Heather, whose incredible command of the English language allows her to provide me with individually needed words at a moment's notice.
 H/C, Smarm, Some violence, and usually a bit of coloruful language.
Season 4
This story takes place after Swimming with Sharks and is my interpretation of a possible scenario of Season 4. My beta, being an English Lit teacher for nearly 30 years, is highly disturbed by the addition of a secret sister, as am I, so this is for both of us. Hope you enjoy it! It would be helpful to see, or at least remember, The Lying Detective before you read this.
Also, special thanks to Ariane DeVere. While everything here is my own work, her transcripts made it easy to verify certain facts from the Great Game.
John snatches up his mobile and answers quickly before it could wake up Rosie. Stepping into the hall, he looks down at the display and, not recognizing the number, whispers, "Dr. Watson."
The doctor listens for a moment before jogging down the stairs for his medical bag. "I'll be right there, Bennett. Keep pressure on it and I'll be there in a mo,'" John promises, plucking his coat off the chair.
He quickly rings Mya to explain the situation and passes her on the stairs as he runs out the door trying not to let it bang open and wake Mrs. Hudson.
Hailing a cab, he hops in and hands the cabbie two tenners. "I'm a doctor and I have an emergency near Leinster Gardens. Please hurry," John rasps, putting his gloves on and trying to remain patient.
"I'll have ya there in a jiffy, mate," the driver responds, speeding up just a little but still trying to be safe.
Arriving within ten minutes, John thanks the cabbie, jumps out handing the driver another fiver, and runs down the street with his bag as fast as he can manage.
He skids to a stop at the third alleyway and makes his way down the narrow passage. John starts to hear Bennett's voice talking to Alfie.
"It'll be fine, Alfie. Dr John's almost here. I can hear his footsteps coming," Bennett offers comfortingly.
The doctor drops to his knees beside the boys and opens his medical bag. He's a bit winded, but he manages a breath to inquire, "What happened, Alfie?"
The boy hiccoughs through pain-filled tears. "I was comin' down the alley after the food pick up at the Bite Way. The manager…gives me food…if I'm there at close," he explains, drawing in a rough breath as the doctor inspects his wound.
"This doesn't look too bad, Alfie. It's a little cut, but there's a lot of blood," John comments, cleaning the area thoroughly, then picking up the loaded suture needle.
"Blood's not all mine, Dr. John. I was protected from the worst," the worried boy explains plaintively.
The doctor nods, looking over at Bennett who seems fine but glances away. "I tried to tell ya when I rang, Doc," he states, hoping the doctor won't be angry with him and his brother.
John takes a deep breath, saying, "Look, Alfie. It's not too bad, but I've gotta put some stitches in this."
Alfie inhales and nods his head bravely. "I'm ready, Dr. John," he states, closing his eyes tightly.
John grabs a syringe of lidocaine out of his bag. "No allergies, right, Bennett?" He asks, relieved when Alfie's brother confirms his memory, and he doesn't have to stitch up an eleven year old kid without anaesthetic.
He finishes the neat row of five stitches then takes off his gloves after bandaging the area.
"These are antibiotics and you've got to take them. Remember the rules," John reminds the young boys.
"No trading meds for money," they both dutifully reply automatically.
John reaches into his wallet. "Here's a couple of tenners, get some food to replace what you lost," the doctor says, handing the money to Bennett.
"Thanks, Doc," The young man says, shaking John's hand gratefully.
"Dr. John?" Alfie says, grasping his arm. "It was Sherlock who protected me," the boy informs the doctor.
"Of course, it was," John says, throwing up his hands and shaking his head. "Which way?" The doctor asks just as his mobile rings, and he grabs it from his coat pocket.
The boys point toward the other end of the alley. John packs up his bag and begins to move in that direction.
Seeing Lestrade ringing him, he figures he could use all the help he can get and answers. "Hey, Greg, I may need a favour," the doctor starts, only to stop talking when he hears the anxiety in the Detective Inspector's voice.
He listens for a minute before breaking into a run. "Damnit, where? Ok, I'm four minutes away," he reassures Lestrade before ringing off.
"What the hell?" he growls, pocketing his phone and picking up the pace considerably.
—-
"Over here," Donovan notes, physically grabbing the doctor and dragging him down another dirty alleyway. "He's freaking out, literally," she advises as they rush into the narrow space.
John stops cold when he sees his friend crouching in between two skips about 15 metres down the alley. Lestrade stands as close as possible speaking calmly with no results.
Sherlock's blood-streaked face and matted hair add a layer of shock to the situation.
Lestrade turns at his arrival, his worried face tense with frustration. "He won't let us any closer. It's like he doesn't know who we are," the detective inspector explains, gesturing to the man in question.
"Well, he's certainly fortified his position," John notes, turning back towards his friend.
"Sherlock?" He attempts, moving slightly closer, his hands out to his sides.
The doctor diagnoses on the move, eyeing the bloody wound in Sherlock's right side, probably from the same damn knife that stuck Alfie. Looking into his friend's eyes, he realizes he's dealing with someone else and turns towards the Detective Inspector.
"Lestrade, clear these people out of here, now," he commands quietly. "It's need to know, and they don't."
The Detective Inspector's confused expression clears immediately as he gets the ball rolling. "Everybody back," he hollers, waving his hands to push people out of the immediate area.
John manages a few more steps before Sherlock stiffens in response to his nearness. His cold, distant eyes take in the shadow that moves closer.
"JW?" John mumbles, making sure no one, save Sherlock, can hear his voice.
The familiarity and warm regard unbalance the detective, and he bangs his head against the metal bin next to him in an attempt to clear it.
The doctor gently places his hand between his friend's head and the skip. "I've got you, mate. I'm Dr. Watson. It's going to be alright. Just let me take a look," he whispers calmly, his hand never leaving his friend.
Suddenly, the detective pitches forward, losing consciousness, as John moves to protect him from further injury.
Running knowing fingers through the detective's matted hair, the doctor curses when his fingers come away soaked in blood.
"Head wound and it looks like he has a laceration on his right side," John reports, placing pressure on the bleeding scalp. "If we can get him back to Baker Street, I can care for him properly," John assures the Detective Inspector, handing Lestrade a pressure bandage from his kit for the detective's side.
The DI shakes his head, saying, "You sure that's a good idea, mate? He looks pretty banged up, not to mention he's not quite right."
"We have an agreement right now, ever since Magnussen got to him in the hospital. He only has to go if I consider the injury level eight or greater. This is a six, at best," John informs the Detective Inspector and their friend.
"Of course, you do. Damn, you're both impossible," Lestrade complains, tossing Sally his keys so she can bring round the car.
—-
John grabs another preloaded suture needle, the third of the night. Seeing how he just finished stitching up his friend's thick skull, he's going to need to replenish soon.
Hearing his flatmate groan, he smiles and greets, "Welcome back. Sherlock?"
"Who else were you expecting?" the detective hisses as John places the first stitch in his left side.
John continues to sew up his friend. "You'd be surprised, mate. Met JW tonight," he adds, uncertain how Sherlock will react to the news.
The detective rolls his eyes and reaches a hand to his forehead at the pain there.
"Stay still or you'll mess up my work," John sibilates, completing another stitch. "Shaved your head so I could stitch it," he teases, causing his friend to flinch in horror and check it out.
"Did I hurt anyone?" Sherlock asks, uncertainty clouding his usually smooth baritone.
John shakes his head answering, "Just you and I already stitched up Alfie earlier. He said you protected him from someone. Any idea who?"
Sherlock moans with the next needle invasion of his skin and shakes his head, immediately regretting the action. "Not at all," he answers regretfully.
"Too much to ask that it's probably just random violence?" John questions hopefully.
Sherlock chuffs out a laugh, simultaneously curling into his injured side. "When are we ever that lucky, John?" The detective inquires upon closing his eyes.
—-
"He misses her," the detective relates quietly, favouring his injured side, as he looks into the caring eyes of John's former counselor.
"Of course he does, Sherlock. She was his wife," Ella explains, leaning forward in her chair. "Are you alright?"
"A little altercation. Nothing to worry about. That's not important. Helping John's is," Sherlock reminds the woman in front of him.
"I'm here to help you, Sherlock," Ella reiterates, folding her hands in her lap.
"We've talked about this before. However I can help John get through things is all the help I need," the detective states boldly, his strong baritone reverberating through the small space.
The therapist sighs, changing tactics. "What steps have you taken to help John?"
"Trying to be less annoying and more helpful like we talked about. I even changed a nappy the other day," Sherlock answers, grimacing at the memory.
"And how did that go?" Ella asks, a knowing smile on her face.
"Not great. I've fought martial artists, assassins, military men, criminals, but changing a nappy for one little toddler felt like it took more out of me," the detective replies, shaking off the memory.
Ella promptly coughs to try to disguise her laughter.
"How will I know it's working?" Sherlock asks quietly.
Ella smiles at him fondly. "You may not, but you observe things, right?" She asks and continues when he rolls his hand impatiently. "What do you see?"
Sherlock closes his eyes and organizes the information before answering. "He seems calmer. Not as many episodes of frustration. He's gained some weight back and seems less tired."
"Then there's your answer," she reveals with a smile.
The detective rolls his eyes once again. "This profession is utter rubbish. How do you keep your clients?" He demands, rising from his chair and heading towards the door.
"Same time next week?" Ella asks, laughing outright this time.
"It is what we do," he states, before walking out the door.
—-
"Will you be alright, then?" John asks his flatmate, taking in his peaked pallor.
Sherlock sighs, responding, "I suppose so, John. The conference only lasts through the weekend."
"I wouldn't go, but they need someone from the surgery and Elspeth's kids are ill. You're not looking so great yourself,' the doctor notes, crossing the room to examine his friend.
Sherlock sighs heavily but holds out his wrist so that the doctor may take his pulse. It's one of the dangers of living with someone who cares about you and is a trained physician.
John nods but releases his wrist. "Seems ok, a little faster than normal, but….you're sure?" the doctor checks once again.
"Of course, no Code Scarlets on the horizon, John. I'll try to remember to eat and sleep," he assures, reaching for another cold case file.
John scrutinizes his friend for another minute before turning away and grabbing his duffel bag.
"I'll return Sunday, and I expect you to be in one piece," John comments, shaking his finger at his flatmate as he walks out the door.
—-
A knock at the door brings Sherlock out of his room to answer. Opening it, he reaches out and shakes the hand of his guest.
"Ah, Rohan, so glad you could make it. We're waiting on one more and then we can get started," Sherlock tells the young man, offering him a seat.
A few minutes later, Billy Wiggins makes his way into the flat after stomping up the stairs.
"Billy Wiggins, Rohan, and vice versa. Let me tell you why you're both here," the detective starts as Billy takes a seat on the coffee table.
"We're conducting an experiment. Wiggins excels at chemistry; whereas, Rohan exceeds all expectations as an herbalist. The case with Magnussen made things very difficult for me. John managed to extract a promise that I will not be using drugs on cases anymore, so you're here to help me find a work around," Sherlock explains to both men seated there.
"Parameters?" Rohan inquires quietly, pulling the mobile out of his pocket.
"Must be ingested, inhaled or absorbed as to leave no verifiable markings, work in a time-released fashion and must not, under any circumstances, be addictive," Sherlock answers as Billy Wiggins walks into the kitchen and sits down at the table.
"Mr. Wiggins, you can help us refine the process, once we actually figure out what'll work," Rohan says respectfully when the man admits that it may be beyond his capabilities.
"Comfrey would work to give you the symptoms for addict- induced liver damage," Rohan suggests, continuing to type out notes into his mobile
Sherlock scoffs after a quick search on his phone. "Let's try something a little less carcinogenic, shall we?" He declines as they continue to go through the options.
"Ephedra. It'll give you the jitters and make it impossible to sleep," Wiggins tosses out the suggestion.
Sherlock shakes his head. "Also potential seizures, strokes, and heart attacks. No thank you," he rejects, standing up to make some tea.
"You can get the same effect with guarana with a lot fewer side effects. Agitation and insomnia are the main ones," Rohan interjects, furiously typing as he gathers more information.
"We could add liquified caffeine. If we watch the ratios extremely closely, we should be able to synthesize it down into something tolerable. We'd have to take care not to exceed a 500mg dosage or things go a little south," Billy notes as he watches Sherlock make tea. "Hey, can I get a cuppa?"
Rohan nods enthusiastically adding, "We'll want to low dose the caffeine in combination with the guarana. If we add chaparral, it'll affect your kidney function, which will give you the appearance of a long-term addict as long as you can act the part."
"That won't be a problem," Sherlock responds distractedly, trying to work the maths out in his head. "I figure we can process and test it in the next several hours. Does that sound about right?"
Billy and Rohan both nod in agreement. The latter leans forward saying, "You'll want Dr. John to monitor while you're actively taking this stuff. We just need to see if you can keep it down."
Sherlock smiles and replies, "Sounds delightful."
Several hours later, the detective finds himself leaning over the toilet retching uncontrollably. He cleans himself up, swishes some water, and walks back into the kitchen.
"The things I'll do in the name of science," Sherlock comments, wiping his face with a towel grabbed from the loo.
"I still think there's just too much caffeine. Let's back off another 100 mg and see if we can smooth out your experience," Rohan notes, measuring out the set of components for the next test run.
"Here's the caffeine," Billy says, handing Rohan a filled pipette when he notes how badly Sherlock's hands are shaking.
Sherlock notes the trembling and tilts his head to the side as an idea suddenly manifests in his weary brain. He smiles wickedly as the solution presents itself.
Rohan stops what he's doing and just looks at the detective. "You've found it!" he exclaims. "Well, don't keep us in suspense all night."
"We'll use the nicotine patches. We can doctor them with the caffeine and guarana tincture, and I'll drink the chaparral as a tea. All combined, it should give me the desired effect," the detective explains, placing a hand to his head.
"You should sit down, mate. You're looking a bit pasty," Billy suggests, eyeing the detective carefully.
"I'm fine," the detective hisses. "Let's just concentrate on getting this right. I'm going to go sit. I need to think so leave me be, but keep working," Sherlock orders, moving through the sliding doors into the living space.
Rohan slides out the doors as well. "It's brilliant, but I need more of the compound to refine further. I'll be back in about an hour," he informs the shaky detective.
Sherlock waves him off and settles in his chair, closing his eyes for what seems like a moment but clearly must be longer, as the weather has turned when he opens them again.
"Hello, I'm sorry for the hour," a lilting feminine voice says from across the room. She steps across the space and hands him a letter before introducing herself. "My name is Faith Smith. My father is Culverton Smith, and I need your help."
He glances down at the letter as she moves to the window to look out at the pouring rain. "Three years ago my father told me he wanted to kill someone. One word and it changed my world forever, Mr. Holmes. One word," she explains, then turns back from the window and makes her way to the chair.
—-
John drops his duffel just inside the door and adjusts Rosie on his hip. She's patting his face, happy that he's home. Looking over at his flatmate's pasty complexion, he shouts, "Bloody hell, Sherlock. What did you do?"
She starts to cry at his yell, and he quiets her with a kiss to her head soothing, "I'm sorry, sweetie. Daddy was surprised. It's alright."
She settles down a bit but reaches for Sherlock as he crosses the room to help John, who lets her go to him.
"How was the conference, John?" His friend inquires, crossing the room with Rosie and setting her down in her playpen, handing her a stuffie.
John analyzes his flatmate carefully, taking note of the sunken in eyes and pallid complexion. He inhales deeply, closes his eyes, and takes a mental step back. "Sit...down…" the doctor instructs calmly, his tone causing Sherlock to comply immediately.
"John, I'm fine," the pale detective states from his chair. "Rohan, Wiggins and I were conducting experiments this weekend, then we got a new case, and I didn't sleep," Sherlock attempts to reassure his friend.
The doctor scorns the assertion readily. "You're most certainly 
 fine, Sherlock," he corrects, disappointment colouring his tenor voice. "You're completely off your tits, mate."
"I wouldn't say completely," the detective retorts, earning a glare from the good doctor.
John stares down his flatmate, inquiring, "How 
 would you describe it?"
Sherlock turns his thoughts inward, hoping to come up with an answer that will satisfy the doctor.
After a moment, John laughs at the disgusted expression on his face, as the detective admits, "I concede to your professional diagnosis."
John grabs his medical bag and produces a small cup. "They were giving this out at the conference, and I nicked one," the doctor relates, tossing the cup out to his flatmate which he catches without issue.
"Fourteen panel Quickscreen Cup. Remarkable. I tell you I'm clean, but if you insist," Sherlock remarks tiredly.
"Don't be daft. It's a gift. Thought you'd like to fiddle with it," John says with a weary smile.
Sherlock's eyes brighten considerably at the trust his friend bestows upon him.
"I am, in fact, going to take a look at you though. You can tell me about the experiments and the new case," John allows, taking his flatmate's blood pressure, checking his breath sounds and other responses.
"Da Da Da Da," Rosie hollers from her playpen bouncing her stuffie off the side and giggling.
"Just a minute, sweet girl. Daddy's helping Sherlock," he replies to her calls, continuing his examination, putting his stethoscope around his neck when he finishes.
Once the doctor satisfies his concerns, he crosses to pick up his daughter and settles in his chair with her on his lap.
"The boys and I figured out how to simulate a drug addiction for cases so that I won't actually have to use," Sherlock reports matter of factly.
John nods his head, understanding why his flatmate looks so rough, as Rosie reaches up and pats his cheek. "Of course, you tested it on yourself all weekend," the doctor accuses, his demeanour souring.
"I'm not an idiot…" Sherlock states only to be interrupted by his friend.
"Debatable," John mutters, amusement taking the sting out of the caustic comment. Rosie grabs the stethoscope and pulls on it, before starting to chew on the bell.
The doctor removes the bell from her mouth, "No, Rosie," he states firmly, before setting it aside and shifting his focus back to the conversation.
"I would need you to closely monitor the situation as it involves nicotine patches, liquid caffeine, guarana and chaparral," the chemist relates steadily, pleased at the progress they made.
John picks up his mobile to look up chaparral as he's unfamiliar with it. "Are you bloody serious, Sherlock? Did you look at these side effects?" The doctor asks, waving his phone at Sherlock.
Rosie grabs it and places it in her mouth. "No, Rosie. Let Daddy have it," he orders, and she lets it go with a pout.
Sherlock plucks a teething ring from the desk and tosses it to his flatmate who hands it to the little one.
Wiping baby slobber from his mobile, John tucks it back into his pocket with a heavy sigh. "I don't suppose it matters because you've already started this crazy scheme for this new case, right?"
"How well you know me. Very good, John," Sherlock congratulates before telling the doctor about his late-night visit with Faith Smith.
"She said her father wanted to murder someone and she had no idea who, but you still didn't want the case? You sent Faith packing, tossed her handbag at her, and told the poor woman to go to the Yarders," John verifies, watching his flatmate carefully.
Sherlock nods affirmatively, remaining quiet as he allows the doctor to work through it.
"Something made you run after her. Ah, I'm guessing something you noted in the purse. What was it?" John inquires, studying his friend's neutral expression carefully. He witnesses a flicker of emotion before the detective can school his expression once again.
Sherlock clears his throat prior to meeting his friend's searching gaze. "A gun," he admits hoarsely, then he lightly coughs, repeating himself more assuredly, "Faith was carrying a weapon. I suddenly deduced, given all the contextual clues, what she planned to do with it, so we got chips and walked around all night."
John offers an understanding smile. "Her life is not her own," he notes, bouncing Rosie on his knee causing the toddler to giggle and want to get down.
"It's safe. I cleaned up," Sherlock states so John sets Rosie egently on the floor to play. "I told Faith to keep her hands off it," the detective admits, blushing very slightly.
"Good for you, mate," John compliments, watching as his daughter toddles over to her toy box and starts throwing things everywhere, looking for something. "She got that from you," he notes, pointing at her flinging toys about.
Sherlock looks affronted, saying, "I do nothing of the sort."
"Might I remind you of the time you thought Mrs. Hudson hid your ciggies, or last 
 when you 
 needed a nicotine patch, which you obviously found since you were able to experiment," John relays comedically through his own laughter.
"Wiggins brought them," the detective discloses, annoyed at still being unable to find this latest batch.
"Cheater. It's not my fault you haven't a clue where I hid them," John teases, getting up to put his duffel in his room before returning to the living room.
Sherlock looks triumphant, holding a nicotine patch in his raised right hand. "Behind the Cluedo board, John. Really?" The detective crows, immensely proud that he finally figured it out.
"Been there for over a month," John tells his flatmate, earning him a glare. "Come on, Rosie. It's time to bathe," he says, pretending to chase her, causing both men to laugh at her high pitched shrieks.
"Can I play for her tonight?" Sherlock asks tentatively, gesturing towards his treasured violin.
John smiles, nodding tiredly. "That would be lovely, mate," the knackered father says as he catches his girl and totes her off to the tub.
—-
"Donovan, must we do this every…single…time?" Sherlock asks plaintively, pushing past her with a wry smile. John follows close behind, shaking his head at their antics.
She shrugs, offering a tentative smile. "It's our thing, aberrant," she reminds him as she leads them up the stairs of the little house.
"Someone's been reading," Sherlock says with a wicked smile, causing her to laugh out loud.
Sally shrugs, coming to the top of the stairs. "If you'll remember, I have a deal with the doctor. He suggested you may appreciate it if I used my imagination," she notes, pushing through the door.
John nods in agreement. "Thank you for sticking to it," he salutes, turning to greet Lestrade at the door.
"Thought you'd like to know, we caught the guy who stabbed you and the kid," Donovan adds, rounding the last corner. "He was indigent and starving and smelled the food."
John chuckles, earning a disapproving look from Sherlock. "We are at a crime scene," he reminds the doctor.
"Yes, but there's no big bad out there gunning for us, mate. It really was an act of random violence. I guess we did get that lucky," John notes, shaking his head and eradicating the smile from his face.
"You'll love this one. It'll melt your brain. I'll let the Detective Inspector give you the details," the sergeant relays as they come to the room.
"Hey, thanks for coming," Lestrade greets them at the door. "So, we basically have a bloody mess. Three bodies, one of which is a Met officer. Apparently, two hours ago he was called to the scene for a domestic. He radioed in his location, then nothing. All contact stopped, and they sent additional units as is protocol. This is what they found," the Detective Inspector explains as they step into the room.
"Whoa," John remarks, taking in the violent carnage of the room. He takes a deep breath and Sherlock's eyes widen as he takes in the scene.
"Staged," Sherlock mumbles to himself, taking out his magnifying glass for a closer look at the first body, a man about forty years of age, dressed all in black, with a bullet to the back of his head. "John?"
"Cause of death is obvious, but this is new. Okay to move him?" the doctor asks, glancing up at the new Anderson, a guy named Mick Patterson.
The forensic man gives him a thumbs up from across the room where he's photographing the female victim.
Donovan speaks up first. "What's new?"
"The body lies in the wrong position. Look at the arms. They would be splayed. Nice catch, John. Oh!" Sherlock states, pointing towards the victim.
John has turned the man over carefully, noting that both of his hands are missing. "Someone's being clever," the doctor hears Sherlock's comments. "I do like the clever ones."
"The female victim is over here. She was beaten to death," Lestrade informs the men as they squat next to the second body.
John winces at the amount of damage inflicted on this poor woman. She's crouched in the corner of the room, her hands held protectively over her head.
He kneels by her side, lifting one of her eyelids. "No petechial haemorrhage, so she wasn't strangled, even though she bears marks upon her neck," he notes, pushing aside her red hair.
"Anything else, Dr. Watson?" Lestrade asks, rubbing his eyes tiredly.
"Broke the nose as well as the maxilla and the zygomatic bones bilaterally, defensive wounds on her arms indicate she at least tried to fight back," the doctor reports as he automatically checks her vitals out of habit. "I can't really see more without removing clothing," John pronounces, standing up again to follow his flatmate.
Sherlock continues to move around the room taking in the scene, opening doors, before stopping in front of the third victim. "Where is it? Where?" He asks, spinning around, processing everything around him. He glances in the kitchen and again at the set table. "Too late. Not right. It's out of place," he mutters, taking in so much information.
He closes his eyes in an effort to ground himself and takes a deep breath.
John waits patiently for a look at the final victim, the Met officer. "This one's vicious," The doctor surveys, lifting the man's uniform shirt, scoping out the extent of the injuries. "The face has a few contusions, but the ribs are crushed. Look at the pattern of flail chest here."
"What else?" Sherlock asks, his mind racing so fast he's getting a headache.
"See the flecks on his lips from expectorated blood. He choked on his own blood from first glance. Not a pleasant experience. You'll have to wait for the autopsy to be certain," John relays, glancing up at Sherlock.
The world's only consulting detective wears an expression of befuddlement, which, if not so disconcerting to the doctor, would amuse him.
"What's the matter, Sherlock?" John asks quietly, not wanting to disrupt the detective's train of thought.
The tall detective shakes his head as if out of a stupor. "He looks familiar," he declares absently.
John motions for Lestrade to join them. "What's the officer's name? Sherlock thinks he may have come across this bloke before."
Lestrade flips back a couple pages in his notebook. "His name's Thomas Dankworth. He actually lives right here in Croydon. I hate doing these notifications," the Detective Inspector mentions with a mixture of sadness and annoyance.
"I don't recognize the name, but…" Sherlock begins, his eyes never leaving the victim's face.
"You delete a lot of names. I know. I count myself as one of the lucky ones you deem worthy of remembering," John finishes sardonically, glancing at his flatmate.
Donovan approaches the group, giving a nod to the new forensic.
"So, the woman was being beaten by the man when the officer stepped in to stop it. He was forced to shoot the man, but it was too late for his victim, but then who would have killed the officer?" Sally starts explaining, stopping herself when she realizes that her notion doesn't make sense.
"That would be fine if any of it was right," Sherlock corrects, circling the room once more.
"If the officer had shot him, it would have been centre mass and not from behind," John adds to the discussion.
"Someone else was here, right? This only works if there's a fourth person in the room. One that managed to walk away," Sally answers expectantly.
The detective's head pops up with a genuine smile. "Very good, Donovan. There may be hope for you yet," he praises to Lestrade's surprise.
"I promised John I would make an effort to be likeable," Sherlock informs the Detective Inspector, making him laugh out loud. "There's no laughing at crime scenes, Lestrade."
The older man quiets down but gives the doctor a look like he may just be a saint.
"Let's start with the fact that no one lives here. Look at the table setting like it's for a show house. There are no personal effects in any of the rooms and the place reeks of environmentally safe cleaners. John's been using those for Rosie's sake."
The detective looks around the room, trying to put everything he's seeing into words.
"Then there's the lack of blood splatter where the second victim crouched so you know she wasn't killed here. Victim one is the doer for both crimes, but why, you ask. His size 12 boots match the bruises on the officer's torso, and his size is consistent with the bruising on victim two's face and arms," the detective describes, pointing to each aspect as he details it.
"Then we're looking for whomever may have hired him to do the job. His hands are missing which will make identifying him that much more difficult," Lestrade remarks, closing his notebook.
John kneels next to the body and begins pushing up the victim's sleeves. "This ought to make it easier," he reveals, glancing down at the tattoo of a slain dragon with the initials A.C.A.B in Olde English font printed around the base of the beast.
"We can run it through the tattoo database and see what it comes up with," Lestrade states, noticing Sherlock's distracted look. "It stands for all cops are bastards," the DI puts the detective out of his misery.
"Nice guy," John remarks, coming up to stand as Sherlock snaps a picture of the tattoo for his research.
"We'll need the usual. Shall we go talk to the wife?" Sherlock inquires, heading for the door.
Lestrade stops in his tracks and turns to the detective. "Absolutely not," the Detective Inspector forbids, placing his hand up to cease their forward motion. "You do not get to come to the notifications for very obvious reasons," he reiterates carefully.
Sherlock starts to protest before remembering the last time. "Very good. The crying gave me a headache for 
," the detective reminds himself. "Thank you, Lestrade."
John just shakes his head at the Detective Inspector's expression. "It's a work in progress," the doctor reminds the room, ushering his flatmate out the door.
—-
"How have you been, Dr. Watson?" his new therapist, Elizabeth, asks quietly. She shifts slightly in her seat, her full attention on the doctor.
John thinks about his answer for a moment. "Call me John," he invites, then continues, "I'm fine."
She waits for a beat to see if he'll elaborate, not exactly surprised when he does not.
"How's your daughter?" Elizabeth asks, trying to draw him into a conversation.
"She's fine. Growing fast," John adds, almost as an afterthought.
"How old is she?" The therapist inquires thoughtfully, making comments in her notes as she goes.
"Fourteen months," the doctor replies, looking up at the somewhat mousy woman with average brown hair and eyes.
"When did you lose your wife?" Elizabeth inquires, her heavy accent dragging each word out longer.
"How did you know I lost my wife?" the doctor asks her pointedly.
The therapist smiles gently, remarking, "You've touched your ring several times, and there's a sadness about you."
John pauses to consider her answer carefully before deciding to play along.
"Almost nine months ago," John remarks, tapping his fingers restlessly on his leg.
Seeing his reticence, the therapist changes tactics, opting for a safer topic.
"Tell me more about your daughter…," she begins, drawing out the last word so that he will fill in the blank without her asking yet another question.
"Rosie. Her name is Rosie and she's wonderful. She's saying a few words. She's the best part of my life," John states unequivocally, surprising the therapist with the number of words he's said.
Quiet permeates the room as does a suffocating sadness. John swallows heavily a few times in an effort to clear the lump in his throat.
"John," she says to get his attention, "Why are you here?"
His hand tightens into a fist in his lap. "It's what people do, isn't it?" He asks, being deliberately obtuse. What is it about this therapist that bothers him he wonders? Perhaps, if he can find the time, he'll look for another.
"That's not an answer," she insists, forcing him to meet her eyes with the tone of her voice.
John sighs, responding, "I made a deal with the devil."
"I see and does this satanic beast have a name?" She inquires with a smile, patiently awaiting his response.
John drops his head to the back of the chair and closes his eyes. "Sherlock Holmes," he answers tiredly, unable to lift his head for the weight on his shoulders.
"And who is this man to you?" Elizabeth questions, drawing her hair behind her ear and pushing her glasses up on her face.
The doctor finds the strength to lift his head at that moment. "My friend. A pain in the arse," John answers, leaning forward in the chair, clearly about done with this for the day.
"I'd like to meet him sometime," she says thoughtfully, placing her notes on the small table to her left. "Let's leave it right here as that's all the time we have for today," Elizabeth suggests, standing up and shaking his hand as he also stands.
"See you next week," John states, giving her a little wave as he walks out the door.
—-
"I've been waiting 
 for you to return from the surgery," Sherlock complains, throwing on his coat and adjusting his scarf.
"So Mya said. Ten text messages in the last half hour asking if I'd come to get Rosie yet. Really? You're going to drive the poor woman mad," John accuses, setting his medical bag down in his chair.
"She worked for my brother for years. Surely, that would have done it first," the detective reminds him.
John shakes his head. "What's going on?" He asks, turning back to his flatmate.
"Lestrade has finally seen reason. He's allowing me to interview Dankworth's wife," Sherlock notifies the doctor ecstatically.
"Alright, but try to remember she's just lost her husband, yeah?" John reminds the enthusiastic detective that there are human emotions involved in the case, not just answers.
Sherlock sighs heavily. "Of course, John," he allows, practically pushing the exhausted doctor down the stairs.
They grab a taxi and clamber inside, heading back to Croydon.
Lestrade waits outside for them to arrive then escorts them to the door.
A slight woman with red hair and green eyes opens the door. She's holding a baby about Rosie's age giving John a moment's pause.
Lestrade makes the introductions, and they move to the living room where she sits in the rocking chair with her baby.
John can't take his eyes off them, and Sherlock clears his throat to break the spell.
"I'm sorry for your loss…" John starts, surprised when her eyes widen in shock at the condolences.
"Colleen," she fills in even though they'd been introduced. "My husband was not a nice man," she says, fussing with her daughter's reddish curls.
Sherlock reaches out for the file from Lestrade. "Mrs. Dankworth, I want to show you a few pictures, some of which are fairly shocking. Would that be alright?" The detective asks, handing the pictures over to the woman.
"I can hold your wee one if you'd like. I have one that size at home," the doctor states, pulling out his mobile and showing her a picture.
Colleen smiles at the toddler's sweet expression. "Well, she's just lovely. What's her name?" The mother inquires, accepting the file of pictures but keeping it closed until she decides.
"Rosie," John answers with a smile.
The young mother hands her daughter over, saying, "This is Ariella. I'm not sure she'll take to you. She's generally frightened of men."
Colleen smiles as John begins to play peek-a-boo with her daughter wishing that life could have been different. Though she wouldn't trade Ariella for anything, her husband was a vicious son of a bitch.
Colleen gasps as she looks at one picture in particular. Holding it out with trembling fingers, she hands it back to Sherlock. "This could have been me. Month before last, Tommy backed me into a corner and beat the hell out of me. Even after I was on the ground like in this picture, he couldn't stop himself," she relays like she's talking about the weather.
"Thank you for your time," Sherlock says, placing all the pictures into the file.
Lestrade looks at the detective oddly, taking the folder back from him.
John smiles at her as he hands over her daughter. "Bye Ariella," he says with a little wave.
"Your wife is lucky you're such a good man, Dr. Watson," Colleen utters wistfully.
"I was the lucky one, but she died last year. Have a good night, Colleen," John announces quietly. "Thanks again."
John joins both men who are talking softly at the Detective Inspector's vehicle.
"Something doesn't seem right for this case, but I just can't put my finger on it," Sherlock notes, bidding the DI a good night before hailing a taxi.
"Are you alright, John?" Sherlock inquires once they are safely ensconced and on their way to Baker Street.
"I'm fine, Sherlock. I just think of her every single day and hope I did right by her," the doctor responds sedately.
Sherlock pauses a moment. "John, you will always have a part of Mary with you, and the fact that you're concerned with doing right by her tells me you probably did," he notes softly for his friend's ears only.
John pats him on the arm. "Thanks for saying that," he whispers gratefully, surreptitiously wiping a tear from his eye.
—-
John hates the bus, but he was running late, couldn't find a taxi, and this was the only option that would get him to the surgery in time.
Rosie was clingy this morning and wanted him to stay, which, of course, he couldn't do because they're short-handed right now at the surgery.
He closes his eyes and tips his head back when he feels someone's eyes on him.
Glancing around the bus, he notices a lovely woman with long red hair and blue eyes smiling at him.
He smiles back, but his stop is next, and he gets off the bus only to be surprised that she has followed him.
"You have kind eyes. They remind me of the ocean on a calm day," she says in a heavy brogue.
John nods. "Sorry, bit of a hurry. Thanks," he responds, turning away to walk the last few blocks to the surgery.
He stops when she lays a hand on his arm. "I'm sorry. I never do this, but here's my card if you ever want to chat. I love your flower, by the way."
"Ok, that's lovely, but I'm late," he states, walking to the surgery. He quickens his pace and strides through the door with seconds to spare.
"I'm here, Lacey. Give me a few seconds to stow my gear and send back the first patient," he instructs.
"Yes, Dr. Watson. Mrs. Phillips is in one. Um, I like your flower," she says with a giggle, and again he's confused until he gets to his office.
He hangs his bag on the hook on the back of the door and without a second glance throws the woman's card in the bin.
Just before stepping out of his office, he catches his reflection in the mirror and can't help but laugh. One of Rosie's plastic flowers is stuck behind his ear, and he didn't even feel it.
"This'll be a day," John states with a chuckle, tossing the daisy onto his desk and rushing off to tend to the affable Mrs. Phillips.
—-
"We've got another, John," Sherlock alerts him after his mobile literally screams nearly giving the doctor a coronary.
John gives a start at the high-pitched shriek. "What the bloody hell was that?" He interrogates his flatmate, his features drawn up in disapproval.
"Murder alert," Sherlock answers, standing up from his chair in Speedy's cafe where they were having a quick bite.
"
needs a murder alert on their mobile, Sherlock, and if you wake Rosie with that infernal racket, I may just murder you," John promises, getting up from the table and waving at Kathleen.
"Leaving again? Do you ever actually finish a meal?" Kathleen inquires, coming over to the table with a couple of take away boxes. "I'll take it over to Mrs. Hudson for you."
"Thanks," John says, stepping out onto the sidewalk. He turns to his flatmate, ordering, "You can change that text alert in the cab."
Sherlock's expression looks put upon, but one doesn't mess with his doctor on these things.
—-
"She was drowned," Sherlock clues the detectives in as he scans the scene in the bedroom.
A woman, between thirty and forty years of age, lays in the recovery position on her bed, rose coloured satin sheets and a duvet billowed around her. It looks like she fell asleep in a pink cloud, if you avoid looking at her glazed open eyes.
Donovan laughs, thinking it's a joke. "She's in her bed, Sherlock. How do you drown in your own bed?" She inquires, then stops when she realizes he's not teasing her. "You're serious?"
"He's right," John adds, taking in the abundant amount of froth around her nostrils and in the corners of her mouth. "She's been processed, yeah?" The doctor asks permission to touch her face.
At Patterson's nod, the doctor reaches forward and places pressure over the maxillary sinus, dragging his fingers across her cheek to the side of her nose. The action causes water to spill from her nostril on the same side into a clear evidence tube.
Donovan's face curls up with disgust whilst Sherlock looks upon the victim with fascination.
"Thirty to forty percent of people have the deviation in the nasolacrimal duct that makes that possible. I took a chance she had it," the doctor educates, handing the evidence tube to Lestrade.
The Detective Inspector takes the vial, places it in a tamper evident bag and sets it in the evidence box.
Sherlock notes the odd discoloration around her neck, contusions of some sort, but caused by what? He looks around, excited about the challenge this case presents. "I'll have to research to find out what made those unique pattern marks," he explains, pausing in his evidence gathering to look at the woman's swollen face.
"There's no sign of conjunctival petechial haemorrhage," John utters, looking into her eyes.
"Which means whatever was around her throat didn't strangle her," Sherlock processes as he leans forward with his handheld magnifying slide. "Looks like there is some sort of viscid residue. John, get a specimen for testing," the detective orders, putting away his magnifier.
"That alright, mate?" John asks Patterson, who's processing other evidence across the room, under the window.
Patterson glances over at him. "That's fine, Dr. Watson. I've already taken my samples, control included. So have at it. We welcome any insight you can give us," the forensic investigator invites, causing Sherlock to stop in his tracks.
"Well, that's a change," the detective notes with a hint of pleasure in his voice. "May I congratulate you, Lestrade, on finally managing to get a forensic specialist that is not a complete idiot."
John sighs as he finishes collecting the samples that Sherlock will need for his research. "Honey, Sherlock," the doctor reminds his brusque flatmate.
Lestrade and company look quizzically at the doctor after his odd comment.
"John endeavours to remind me that I will catch more flies with honey. It's his way of urging me to be nice," the detective states, taking the test tubes from his flatmate and placing them in the pocket of his Belstaff.
"Is it a keyword that'll work for everybody?" Lestrade inquires with a teasing smile.
"Certainly not. It barely works for him," Sherlock warns, flying out of the room in a flurry of coat tails.
"And we're done here," John mutters as he hurriedly stands. "See you guys later," he says, rushing out the door to catch up with his friend. "You know it wouldn't kill you to say goodbye or even thank you to them," the doctor scolds, after catching up with the lanky detective.
"Probably better not to find out," Sherlock responds with a wink of his right eye.
—-
Molly taps on the door frame of 221B. "Mrs. Hudson said to come right up. Hope that's okay," she says coming into the living room.
"Do you want a cuppa?" John asks from the kitchen, making them tea.
"That'd be great," the specialist answers, moving toward the sofa, then changing her mind and sitting in the desk chair. "Shall we jump right in?" She inquires, making herself comfortable, taking out the file from her bag.
Sherlock waves his hand prompting her to begin.
"Victim was female, aged 34, single, no living relatives. Her name was Charlotte Zelley," Molly starts, glancing over the particulars for this victim.
"Why is her name important?" Sherlock asks, disapproval colouring his tone.
Molly's expression shows her disappointment in Sherlock, causing him to actually turn away for a moment. "Because people matter, Sherlock," Molly reminds him, her voice scolding the detective.
She glances back down at the file and continues to read.
"Autopsy revealed vastly different concentrations of sodium and chloride between the right and left heart blood, diatoms in the bone marrow as well as diluted alveolar surfactant," Molly begins, opening the file and reading her findings.
"Saltwater drowning then," John adds, coming into the room with their tea.
She turns to Sherlock seated in his chair. "Did you get that sample I sent over? The results were…odd and as you're an excellent chemist, I thought a second opinion was in order," Molly inquires, reaching out for the cup of tea John offers.
"Quite extraordinary actually. You confirmed that there was no cross contamination?" The detective asks, reaching for his notes on the desk with a wince before once again schooling his expression.
"Three times," Molly answers, offering her report with the outlined protocols she followed.
"I concur with your findings, Ms. Hooper. The substance in which the victim drowned contained amino acids, alcohols, and ketones as well as lipids, mucins, purine derivatives and proteins. Commonly known as tears. Although these were synthetically manufactured, I have yet to match them to a brand currently on market, so our clever killer may have manufactured them. I also determined that the substance found on the throat was some type of adhesive residue. Upon further study, gaffer tape," Sherlock confirms the findings in her own report.
"Meaning that someone taped a bag over her head and drowned her with tears?" the doctor asks from the kitchen. "That's bent."
"Killers are rarely the sanest people, John," the detective reminds his friend.
John's laugh carries from the kitchen. "Good point, mate," he responds, grabbing Sherlock's favourite biscuits when he overhears Molly's question.
"What happened to you?" The specialist registrar asks taking in the neat stitches over his left eye.
The detective notes her concern, answering, "An unfortunate altercation with several gentlemen at a bar. I was following up on the Met officer murder. He apparently spent an inordinate amount of time there, and they took exception to my 'meddling.' I'm fine."
John's disbelieving laugh as he returns with his own tea catches Molly's attention.
"It's actually good you came by as I also need a second opinion," the doctor mentions as he takes his chair.
"John, you've been monitoring my progress. You know that's not necessary," Sherlock assures his blogger only to stop talking when he sees the doctor's expression.
"Sherlock, you're an idiot. Brilliant, but an idiot," the doctor reminds his flatmate again.
Molly follows the discussion like a real tennis match. "I would be happy to check him out," she interjects then blushes when she realizes how it sounds.
"Thank you," John states with appreciation, pointing accusingly at his flatmate as if willing him to behave.
Molly reaches for her medical bag which she grabbed when Sherlock texted her that she'd probably need it.
John comprehends the situation immediately upon seeing she has her kit. "You're such a prick," he curses at the detective, who sits innocently as if he did not orchestrate the situation.
—-
"Mycroft's on his way up," John tells his flatmate as he finishes putting Rosie's lunch on the table in front of her. "Sherlock, sit down, for God's sake. Molly's pretty sure your ribs are broken."
"Oh, Sherlock," Mrs. Hudson fusses, patting his arm and getting up to fetch him an ice bag for his eye. She places it gently. "You need to keep the swelling down, dear."
"I'm fine," the detective reassures her with a gentle hand on hers. She smiles down at him and goes to grab the food she's just finished preparing.
"Just in time to ruin our meal, I see," Sherlock comments as big brother walks through the door, and Mrs. Hudson sets a tray of sandwiches on the table.
"I thought you were on a case," Mycroft notes, subtly reminding his brother he doesn't eat during those anyway.
Mycroft smiles at the woman, nods and greets her respectfully, "Mrs. Hudson."
"Mycroft," she returns, just as formally as he addresses her, smiling when he makes no move to sit down.
"This is a matter of utmost importance and not overly appropriate for your young one," the minor political figure informs John, moving into the living room and taking a seat in the desk chair.
He gestures for Anthea, who brings in a box, sets it on the desk next to her boss, and takes her leave, never once acknowledging anyone else in the room or even looking up from her phone.
"You'll be alright with her for a mo?" The doctor asks his beloved landlady.
"I'd be delighted to keep our girl company. Right, Rosie?" Mrs Hudson responds sweetly to the toddler's giggling delight.
John smiles at them both, pasting a kiss on Mrs. Hudson's cheek and Rosie's head, following Sherlock to their chairs in the living room.
"Da da," Rosie chimes in when he leaves the room.
Mrs. Hudson closes the doors to give them additional privacy and sits back down with Rosie so they can finish their lunch.
"I don't owe you any cases, Mycroft, and don't plan to any time soon," Sherlock informs his brother who nods in understanding.
"This is not a case, brother mine. It's a breach in security and will require you to acquiesce to a protection detail," his older sibling informs him.
"Absolutely not. I will not have your spooks climbing all over our lives," the detective forbids, grimacing as he turns away from his brother, like that's the final word on the subject.
"Lucky for me, what you want doesn't factor into the picture," Mycroft reminds his brother, looking to John for a little assistance.
John clears his throat loudly before speaking. "Listen, I'm sure we can figure this out. Sherlock, let's find out what this is all about. Mycroft, tell us what the hell's going on," the doctor demands, giving the man his full attention.
"Sherlock, what do you remember of Sherrinford Manor?" The older man questions, waiting for his younger brother to answer.
The detective closes his eyes and quickly searches for any information on the subject. "Not a thing," he answers decisively, looking at his brother.
Mycroft nods as if this is expected. "What if I ask about Redbeard?"
Sherlock looks over at his brother like he's lost his mind. "Oh for God's sake, Mycroft, what does my dog have to do with this?"
Mycroft pauses as this is a delicate subject, and he has no real wish to upset his younger brother.
"You've never had a dog, brother," Mycroft enlightens Sherlock, to his astonishment.
The detective looks over at his brother, his expression guarded. "He was an Irish Setter and extraordinarily clever," Sherlock defends, watching as his brother shakes his head sadly.
"No, Sherlock, you were severely traumatized by a…series of events. Given the extent of your reaction, we felt we had no choice but to reprogram," Mycroft explains, grimacing at how that sounds.
John's eyes narrow and he hisses, "You did what? He was a child, not a bloody computer, Mycroft."
"My parents hired a traumatic reprogramming specialist to replace the…disturbance with memories of something more benign. I suggested a dog, as you'd always wanted one and Redbeard was born. What I'm about to tell you, dear brother, has been filed away for a very long time," the older Holmes reveals, taking a dossier out of the box.
Mycroft closes his eyes, inhales deeply, then opens them again. Pulling the documents out of the folder, he begins, "There were four of you. It was supposed to be a study for gifted children. Mother was beside herself with pride, at first, because you were the reason for the study."
"So how did I come to be there, Mycroft?" His brother demands the answer, placing a hand on his sore rib cage.
"A colleague of hers, Dr. Elias Harrington, met Sherlock when mummy brought him to the University. He made several deductions about the doctor which completely impressed him and caused him to re-evaluate his study and propose a new one," Mycroft admits, a dash embarrassed that he had not been around then.
Sherlock thinks about it for a moment, remembering that he met a man when with his mum and that she was excited by what he was saying. "I think I remember a little of that," the detective mutters as his older brother carries on with the story.
"He referred to you by codenames based on Greek mythology. He called you each by a different wind: Boreas was the North; Notus was South; Eurus, the East; and Zephyr, the west. He considered himself the God of the Winds and even had you call him Aeolus," Mycroft continues explaining, flipping through the file.
"That should have been your first clue that he would go too far in the name of science," John inserts angrily.
"It started innocently enough with logic puzzles and reasoning tests. Sherlock was happy and challenged…at first," the elder Holmes recounts only to be interrupted by the doctor.
"It always does, until it goes pear-shaped and blows up in your face," John comments, his expression filled with anger on his friend's behalf.
"One of the children, Eurus, was Harrington's daughter and had an amazing mind. Unfortunately, she also possessed a propensity for violence and enjoyed seeing others in pain, especially Sherlock. Do you remember her?" Mycroft queries, resisting the odd impulse to reach out to his younger brother.
"Not at all," the detective answers quietly. "You had no right to change my memories, Mycroft." Sherlock accuses angrily, his gaze focused solely on his older brother.
"We had every right. You were only eleven. When our parents found out what she did, they were beside themselves with anger and guilt," the older Holmes whispers, remembering that time with so much fear and fury.
"What happened to Sherlock, Mycroft?" John questions softly.
Mycroft glances at his younger brother, his expression stilling in the turmoil of the pronouncement. "She pushed you down a flight of stairs at the institute, and you broke your arm and sustained a severe head injury. I came home from university to find you in a coma."
"How long?" Sherlock asks, the anger resonating in his voice causing it to tremble.
"Father was absolutely livid. He found the traumatic reprogramming specialist when you awakened nine days later. Uncle Rudy was established in the government at that point and basically made it all disappear," Mycroft finishes, handing the journal to his younger brother when he reaches for it.
"Why now?" Sherlock asks, his voice hoarse from the emotions he's trying to suppress.
"The case you've been working on for Detective Inspector Lestrade. The murders of Thomas Dankworth and Charlotte Zelley flagged in the system and set off all kinds of alarms. They were the North and South winds, Sherlock. You and Claire are the only ones left," Mycroft notes as his mobile rings.
"Beware the east wind," Sherlock spits fiercely. "You used that mnemonic to control my memories. To see if I was remembering things. That's why you wanted me to stay away from Magnussen. He knew the truth, and you thought I'd find out."
Sherlock's standing in front of his chair, railing at his brother, his voice a hissing whisper of its usual baritone.
John stands as well to place his hand on his friend's shoulder in a silent show of support. He steps around the detective. "Mycroft, just go. Find out what's happened to Dr. Harrington and his daughter," the doctor orders, pointing the way out.
—-
"You okay, mate?" John asks the detective who is reclining on the sofa with his hands folded across his broken ribs.
Sherlock's eyes twitch over to him and promptly close. "I need quiet, John," he demands from his flatmate.
"I'm here if you need me," the doctor says quietly.
Sherlock opens his eyes again, making sure John sees his expression. "You always are," he responds quietly before closing his eyes once again to shut out distractions.
"Alright then, you just have a nice visit to the mind palace, whilst I go finish the dishes before Mya and Rosie get back. I'll leave you to it," the doctor mumbles under his breath, grabbing dishes from the desk and coffee table and moving into the kitchen where he shuts the sliding doors.
Sherlock enters the mind palace through a large ornate door and goes deep within its levels to find the memories which have been reprogrammed. Barely noticing the masterpieces on the walls, he turns down the hall of his childhood, a place he rarely visits.
There are several elaborately carved doors before him, but one in particular fascinates him. It looks like none of the others in this wing. Walking down the hall, he reaches out and lays his hand upon the cool metal vines that block access to the door. The work winds intricately over the chiseled wood.
Sherlock pushes gently at the door, but it doesn't budge. Inhaling deeply, he sets about trying to unwind the labyrinthine copper lines blocking his path, but still nothing happens. Taking a moment, he turns towards the neighbouring door which easily opens.
Stepping into the room, he sees the pirate fort Mycroft and he built when they were children. Sherlock envisions himself playing here as a child and can suddenly hear himself singing. He smiles as he realizes his younger self sings "Round and Round the Garden."
Deciding upon a different tactic, he heads to the library of knowledge and begins searching through the titles until he finds what he's looking for-Greek Mythology. Pulling the book, he opens it and purely by happenstance, if he's honest with himself, finds the information for which he searches.
—-
John finishes the dishes and grabs a paper to read. Before he can settle, he begins to hear Sherlock mumbling. Crossing to the sofa, he opens the Evernote app on Sherlock's mobile to start the process of recording his words.
"There you go, mate. You can study them later," the doctor whispers, taking his paper and settling in the chair.
"Notus, the south wind, powerful with rain, Charlotte must have cried often," the detective murmurs as the door to the flat opens.
Mya and Rosie enter and proceed to the kitchen. "She's knackered after the park. I can take her to nap downstairs after her snack," she whispers, knowing not to disturb the detective when he's in this state.
"No, no, no," Rosie chants as she sits eating her fruit and cheese, banging her beaker (sippy cup) of milk on the table.
"That's enough of that, Sheralyn Rosamund," John scolds and she settles down to finish.
Mya crosses to the sink to wet a flannel (washcloth) to clean Rosie.
"We should be fine, plus with this case and the surgery, I want to spend some time with my girl," John responds, folding up his paper to come sit at the table. "Hiya, baby girl," he greets her fondly, nuzzling her neck, making her giggle.
After snack time, they attempt to retire to the chair, but Rosie has other ideas. "Settle down, sweetie," John soothes, walking around the flat with her curled up on his shoulder until she falls asleep.
Laying her down in her playpen, John sits at the desk and continues to research the information Mycroft left earlier. Flipping through page after page of reports, he's nauseated by the abuse of power and trust Dr. Harrington displayed.
"How long was I gone?" Sherlock rasps from the sofa.
John checks his watch and answers, "A little over two hours. Watch your mobile. You were mumbling and I set it to record for your notes."
"Appreciated as always, John," the deep baritone replies before a pain-filled moan floats over from the couch.
"Were you able to retrieve the memories?" the doctor inquires, surreptitiously checking over his flatmate's health and wellbeing.
"I'm fine," Sherlock states emphatically, waving away the doctor's concern.
"No, you're not…but you're also not in any imminent danger, so I'll let that one by," the fair -haired doctor corrects.
"To answer your question, I was not. Mycroft will pay for that one dearly, but I am impressed with the reprogrammer's efforts. I can only access the memories they placed there," Sherlock informs him with frustration.
John smiles over at him understandingly. "We can look into that down the road if you decide you want to definitively retrieve those memories. Did you find anything useful?" The doctor questions, closing his laptop.
Sherlock sighs heavily, then grabs his ribs regretting the action. "Possibly, I may know why the second victim was drowned in tears and the first one was beaten. I think it's Harrington's daughter. It wouldn't be Harrington, because why would he wait so long? But his daughter, something may have happened to provoke this response," the detective notes, standing slowly with a groan to stretch his legs.
"How 'bout the fact that her father died? I found the death notice online when I was researching the names Mycroft gave us," John informs him, as the detective crosses the room to check it out on the laptop.
"That would do it. She comes across his research after he dies and decides to punish him by killing all his subjects," Sherlock confirms, straightening his back painfully. "Murdered or natural causes?" The detective asks as an afterthought.
"Doesn't say, but the DI could pull the file," John reminds him.
"I'll text Lestrade to pull the case file and look into the daughter, but for now, I need to bathe," Sherlock sets aside his mobile after sending the message to the Detective Inspector.
Rosie starts to cry, waking from her nap, and the detective detours to get her.
"Don't you dare pick her up with those broken ribs, Sherlock," John threatens, closing the laptop and crossing the room to get her himself. "Mrs. Hudson probably heard that sigh, mate."
"Hello, Rosie. Your Dad's wound about my fractured ribs," Sherlock greets, giving her a gentle kiss to the forehead before resuming his course to the loo.
"Off with ya," John shoos his flatmate and raising his daughter so they are face to face."I'm not wound, sweet girl, just concerned," he justifies his actions to the child, who blows a raspberry on his cheek causing him to laugh.
—-
Mrs. Hudson enters the flat hurriedly several days later. She races into the kitchen to find John and Rosie having breakfast.
"Where's Sherlock?" She asks quietly, trying not to upset the sweet girl she loves so much.
John, sensing her distress, gets up from his chair to help her into one.
"What is it, Mrs. Hudson? Sherlock isn't here, but I'm to meet him in an hour at Saint Caedwalla's Hospital," the doctor informs her, patting her hand in reassurance.
"Did you see his blog this morning? It's all over the telly. Sherlock's accused Culverton Smith of being a serial killer, and I'm worried for you both," she frets, nervously wringing her hands.
The doctor takes a deep breath. "So, it's started," he whispers, getting up from the table. "Hold on a sec, Mrs. Hudson. I need to call Mya."
Grabbing his mobile, John rings his nanny with the change in plans.
"Okay, Mrs. Hudson. Sorry 'bout that. So, a few weeks ago, I went to that conference in Cardiff, remember?" John begins to explain.
At her affirmative nod, he continues, "Whilst away, Sherlock was…let's say experimenting…and a woman came into the flat and begged him to stop her father from killing someone."
Mrs. Hudson gasps, "Oh, dear. Was that the night of the big storm? I saw him go out in the rain, but I didn't see a woman. He did say he was going out with a friend for a while. I tried to tell him he was in no condition…but you know how he gets," the landlady rambles.
"Yes, I do, Mrs. Hudson and you did everything right, so don't worry yourself, okay?" John comforts the woman just as Mya comes in the door.
"I'm here, Dr. Watson. Sorry it took a mo," she apologizes as she comes into the kitchen.
"My My My," Rosie shouts when she sees her nanny and lifts her arms to be held.
Mya shakes her head, saying "Finish your breakfast, sweetie, and we'll clean up and go play."
"You okay now, Mrs. Hudson?" John asks as he rinses out his coffee mug and washes his hands.
"I'm fine as long as my boys are fine," she replies with absolute fondness.
"Cheers. I'm off," John states, kissing Rosie on the head whilst trying to avoid sticky little fingers.
"Bye bye, da da," Rosie hollers after her father with a wave, causing him to pause in the doorway with tears in his eyes.
He returns to the kitchen to tickle her neck. "So, we've got a new word, hey, sweet girl?" John notes, kissing her on the head once more before heading off to meet the world's only consulting detective.
—-
John strides cheerfully up to the hospital entrance where Sherlock waits for him. Press cameras surround them as reporters start to shout questions at the pair. As usual, they both ignore the questions and turn as the media explodes in cacophony when Culverton Smith arrives.
"I don't do handshakes," the wealthy benefactor comments, opening his arms to Sherlock.
"I'm aware," the detective drawls disdainfully as he steps into the other man's arms and deftly nicks the man's mobile from his pocket.
He turns to John who waves him off. "Come on, Dr. Watson, we could always use a good medical man like you here at Saint Caedwalla," Smith invites John, who steps forward, pats the man a couple times, and moves out of reach.
They enter the hospital on their way to the children's ward where it seems an enormous number of children wait to meet them.
"I'll need the loo first," the detective states earnestly as they make the required stop.
Several minutes later, they enter the children's ward that Culverton Smith has donated to the hospital.
"Hello, everybody," Culverton Smith grandstands, "this is the famous Sherlock Holmes and his phenomenal blogger, Dr. John Watson. Let's give them a St. Caed's welcome."
Sherlock and John step forward to greet the children, as they applaud enthusiastically for the pair.
"Hey, guys," John opens. "How's everybody doing today?" He asks, allowing the children an opportunity to interact with them.
The children and hospital staff lean forwards with interest as John tells them about their first case together.
"I called it 
.There was so much pink, I felt like everything was covered in pink bismuth," the doctor states, causing the children to snicker amongst themselves.
"How did you solve it?" A little girl asks quietly.
Sherlock smiles down at the child before answering, "Logic and reason, with help from a not so good cabbie and a very good doctor."
"Dr. Watson?" A young boy attempts to get the doctor's attention.
"Yes, young man," John responds kindly.
"Are you a very good doctor?" he asks shyly.
John smiles at the boy when Sherlock steps in and answers, "Indeed he is."
"Last one," Sherlock tells the children. "The Hickman Gallery displays the Vermeer painting, and a very bad man will do something very bad if I can't figure out why it's a fake. He gives me only ten seconds, and I search very hard for the answer." His words entrance the children as they try to guess what's wrong with the painting.
"Paint wasn't old enough," a little boy says from the back row.
A little girl shouts out, It was hanging upside down."
The detective chuckles openly. "How I wish it had been that simple, but it was actually an error in the painting itself. A little thing called the Van Buren Supernova which was an exploding star that only appeared in the sky in 1858. Impossible for it to have been in a work from the 1640's. We solved two murders and prevented another with that one," Sherlock finishes and the children applaud once again.
"What about a serial killer?" Smith antagonizes the detective openly in front of the children.
"Sir, I don't think that's a good topic for the children," the paediatric nurse chastises, stepping forward.
"Would you like to keep working here, Nurse Cornish?" The hospital benefactor questions venomously.
Sherlock tilts his head to the side, before interrupting the awkward exchange. "While I personally find breakfast unnecessary, I have been assured by Dr. Watson that it's the most important meal of the day, so a good bowl of cereal should be murdered every morning, children. Come along, John. We're done here," Sherlock calls as he walks out the door.
"Thank you, kids. We enjoyed meeting you," John states, turning towards his flatmate. As they walk out, they both wave.
Culverton Smith storms after them into the hallway, asking if they'd like to continue the tour.
Sherlock seems to be considering the proposal. He looks towards John, who shrugs and waves his hand in the universal gesture of get on with it.
The benefactor leads them down another wing when a boardroom on his left interests Sherlock.
Ducking into the meeting room, Sherlock takes in the long table surrounded by chairs, each fitted with its own IV pump.
"We aren't to be subjected to one of your special meetings, are we?" Sherlock asks, studying the megalomaniac before him.
"I'll pass, thank you," John interjects, looking closely at one of the intravenous bags. "What is TD12?" The doctor inquires, lifting the bag to get a feel for the liquid inside.
The man looks inordinately pleased with himself. "At times, business requires confidentiality. TD12 helps protect people from learning about things that they shouldn't," Smith answers.
"Like how you plan to murder someone?" Sherlock accuses without heat as they move through the opposite door.
Culverton Smith slows down and finally stops in front of the hospital mortuary doors.
"We've reached my favourite room," He states with a smile, his eyes alight. John finds this concerning and is now convinced this man may be an incredibly smart maniac.
"Your favourite room is where they keep the bodies of the dead?" John inquires disapprovingly, passing through the doors into the wintery room.
"Everybody out. I need the room," Culverton announces, meeting some resistance from the person actually in charge. "Would you like to keep working here?" He asks and orders him out for at least fifteen minutes, ordering him to knock upon his return.
"I remember people like you from school. Always bullying anyone they can to get their way. Is that how you do it?" John inquires, folding his hands behind his back.
"Do what?" Smith puts forward innocently to John's extreme dismay.
"You have approximately ten minutes left to explain before my little surprise gets here. Let's see how clever you really are," the detective explains.
"Quite, but I have no idea what you're on about," Culverton Smith overtly lies. He reaches forwards, drawing the sheet back from an elderly deceased woman. Lifting her hand up, he makes her wave to John who can barely control his fury.
"This woman died in your hospital, Mr. Smith, and you will show some respect," he demands in a military tone.
The maniac drops the arm, and John gently replaces it and covers her back up. "The dead are not to be played with, sir," he further scolds, his left hand curling into a fist and slamming down on the table.
"John," Sherlock warns the doctor not to get drawn into the game as he begins to hear footsteps come down the hall. "I think our surprise guest is about to arrive. I texted her from your mobile and asked her to meet you here," the detective admits, holding out the man's mobile.
"There was a password," Smith notes looking down at his phone.
John laughs. "I'm sure there was, but Sherlock has a way of breezing right through those," the doctor mentions to the no longer laughing man, who plucks his mobile from Sherlock's shaking fingers.
"Come on in, Faith. Won't you join us?" Sherlock invites the woman standing at the door.
The doors open allowing a beautiful woman to enter the room. She walks with a cane, which he knew already, but her gait pattern's different than he remembered.
"Faith, so glad to see you again," Sherlock states warmly, reaching forward to shake her hand, only to find it's not the same woman at all. "What have you done with her?" The detective demands, storming towards the benefactor angrily.
The woman tries to let go of his hand when his fingers clutch her that much tighter.
"Please let me go," she asks kindly, her eyes widening with sudden fear.
"Sherlock?" John questions, coming around the mortuary table in hopes of calming his friend down.
"John, I don't understand. This isn't the woman who came to the flat," Sherlock admits, his eyes glazing over.
"You're burning up, mate," he notes when Sherlock pulls away and pushes John behind him.
"He's got a knife, John," the detective shouts, becoming even more confused when Smith lifts both his empty hands in the air and the knife is now in his own hand.
John, sensing the escalation, comes round to the front of Sherlock and somewhat easily disarms him, herding him gently back into the mortuary lockers. "Calm down, mate," he exclaims, as the world's only consulting detective's blue eyes roll up into his head and he slides down the wall.
"Shit, get me some help in here now," John yells, taking off his jacket and kneeling next to his friend.
"Sherlock, what the bloody hell, mate?" he whispers quietly, loosening the detective's collar and checking his vitals. "I'm a doctor," he shouts, turning towards the Smiths. "Get me some bloody help immediately. Move it!"
Culverton picks up the morgue extension and dials emergency to get some help down to the morgue. Within minutes, there are two nurses and another doctor running into the room.
"He's got a tension pneumothorax of the right lung. I need you to get me a thoracostomy kit. Don't think! Just get me the damn kit," John orders, ripping open Sherlock's shirt as he wheezes and blood sprays from his mouth.
The nurse pulls open the emergency drawers on the cart they've brought with them and hands the thoracostomy kit over to Dr. Watson. John removes the sterile needle from its packaging. "This is going to hurt, Sherlock," he apologizes to his friend.
Sherlock sprays them with another blood-filled cough in his attempt to get air into his damaged lung.
John inserts the sterile needle, over the rib, in the second intercostal space in the midclavicular line to decompress the tension pneumothorax. Hearing the tell-tale pop of the pleura, he pushes the catheter through.
"Give me the chest tube," the doctor demands as Sherlock's eyes open and tears leak out the corners into his hair. "You're stabilized for the moment, Sherlock," John answers the question in his blue eyes.
"Get him admitted," John tells the doctor across from him. "I want him in CCU for the next two hours while we run some tests. I need an FBC, LFT, ABG, GFR and an Electrolyte panel. Get me the results as soon as you've got them and put a rush on it." (Full Blood Count, Liver Function Test, Arterial Blood Gases, Glomerular Filtration Rate)
"You don't have privileges here, Dr. Watson," the doctor reminds him after a look from Culverton Smith.
"Give me five minutes to get this sorted," John informs them as he pulls his mobile from his pocket and dials Mycroft's private line which is answered immediately.
"Need privileges at Saint Caedwalla's Hospital, effective immediately," John orders, laying a supportive hand on Sherlock's shoulder.
"I'll be there directly. Privileges will be active in less than five minutes," Mycroft adds, hanging up the mobile.
Three minutes later, the lead doctor's phone rings an unknown number. "Dr. Atherton," he answers, listens for a moment, and then replies, "Yes, sir. I understand, sir. I will personally see to it, sir." before ringing off.
"We good now?" John asks, knowing the answer.
"Absolutely, when the President of the National Healthcare System calls you on your private mobile, we are definitely good. Sorry about that," Dr. Atherton responds with contrition. "Please, get a transport trolley. Nurse Fincher, if you could, ensure a room is ready."
Culverton Smith tries to step forward. "Thank you, Dr. Watson. You saved my life," the man gushes, his daughter holding onto his arm to keep him out of the way.
"Excuse me, Mr. Smith, but we need to get going," John declares after they've lifted Sherlock onto the trolley.
"Dr. Atherton, make sure when he's able, that you move Mr. Holmes to my personal suite, 73A. We can ensure the best possible care," the benefactor supplies as they wheel the detective out of the mortuary quickly moving to CCU.
—-
"You know you scared the bloody hell out of me," John rails at the reclining detective. "You have two broken ribs, one of which punctured your lung, causing a tension pneumothorax. That's just for starters. The electrolyte panel came back showing an imbalance which substantiates you're in renal failure, my friend."
"I figured I might be close to that," Sherlock admits, causing John to tense up and seriously consider throttling the detective.
"I found three of those bloody patches on your arm, Sherlock. Remember when we spoke about moderation?" the doctor reminds his flatmate.
Sherlock nods, then admits, "Yes, but the timetable became accelerated. I never intended it to go that far."
"At least that's something. We'll be measuring your urine output for at least the next 24 hours. You're also hyperkalemic, so we'll work to control your blood potassium as well as your calcium levels. There will be no arguments and maybe you can get out of this without dialysis," John warns, leaning over the bed to check on his patient one last time before he leaves.
"I've brought you my cane so that if you have to move back and forth to the loo, you've got a bit of help, but seriously that's not gonna be for a few days, mate. You call the nurse. I have to go get laptops and your overnight bag, then I'll be coming back. Lestrade put a man on the door. You be okay for a few hours while I make all the arrangements?"
"I'll be fine. I'm just going to sleep, John. I'm so tired," Sherlock assures the doctor as he turns to leave.
"Destroying your organs will do that to a body. Stay put," John Watson orders.
—-
"Mrs. Hudson, you're not our housekeeper, remember?" John reminds the lovely lady as he comes into the flat.
"I just picked up a bit, dear. I found all kinds of things and set them on the mantle," she notes, fussing over the soup she's made to take to Sherlock. "Is he really going to be alright?"
John hugs her, placing a kiss on her cheek. "I think so. I'll definitely keep you updated though, so no worries there," he promises, pulling together the two laptops and placing them in his duffel.
Striding quickly back into Sherlock's room, he pulls a few comfortable clothes from the chest of drawers and grabs his favourite dressing gown.
Coming back into the living room, he places the items he's collected into the bag and runs up the stairs to his room where he collects a couple of changes of clothing just in case.
"I'm trying to figure out if I have everything. I spent an hour with Rosie, and she's down for the night. She's been bathed, read to, rocked, and tucked in, so I think I covered all that. What else?" John recites his list, trying to make sure he doesn't forget anything.
The mobile ringing disrupts his thinking. "Dr. Watson," he answers without seeing who's calling.
"Hey, Greg, what's up?" John asks, as he pops into the bathroom to grab Sherlock's grooming kit from under the sink then back to the living room to put it in the duffel.
"No, I'm trying to pack so I can get back there," the doctor answers before coming to a complete standstill.
"You found a connection between Smith and Harrington. Jesus! What's the connection?" John demands of his friend.
"That could be anything. Lots of people donate money to the same hospital. It doesn't prove a thing," John remarks, then answers the next question. "No. He couldn't find the letter from Faith either. Yeah. Ok, I'll ring you if I think of anything."
"Mrs. Hudson, I'm off," the doctor pulls the duffel up onto his right shoulder.
"John?" I'm sorry, but I couldn't help but overhear that Sherlock lost a letter," Mrs. Hudson remarks, wringing her hands. "I found one while tidying up. I don't know if it's what you were looking for, but I put it up on the mantle."
John walks purposefully to the mantle where she's pointing and picks up the letter. Seeing that it's exactly as Sherlock described shakes him as he really thought the man hallucinated it.
He clutches the letter in his hand then stabs it to the mantle. "Thank you, Mrs. Hudson. I've got to get to hospital. I think Sherlock may be in trouble," he says, running down the stairs with Mrs. Hudson following as well as she can with her hip.
"John, take my car. It's the Aston Martin. You can't miss it," she hollers, tossing him the keys.
"How on earth do you own an Aston Martin, Mrs. Hudson?" He asks, standing dumbfounded on the street.
"I was married to a drug dealer in Florida, and I own property in central London, John. There's no time for this nonsense. Go save Sherlock," she yells, pointing him in the direction of the vehicle.
"Call Lestrade. Let him know that Sherlock's in trouble," John orders, turning and running for the car he can't believe he's about to drive.
—-
John races through the hospital, running as fast as he can. The lateness of the hour works in his favour as very few people are here.
Coming through the entrance for Sherlock's floor, he sees the officer no longer standing at the door.
"Oh God," he whispers, pushing on the door, to find that it doesn't give. Spying a water fire extinguisher on the wall down from the room, he grabs it and starts to bang it into the door until it opens.
John rushes into the room to see Culverton Smith leaning over the bed and Pulls him away from his friend. Several nurses come running when the alarm goes off for his heart monitor, followed by the officer who had been assigned to guard the door.
He throws the megalomaniac to the officer, demanding he cuff the man. "Just do it, damnit, and we'll sort it later," John orders, racing to the bedside and starting compressions.
"Somebody, bag him and get a crash trolley in here, now," John commands, as the nurses move to heed his instructions.
"Sherlock, come on, mate," he says, continuing with the compressions. "Breathe," he says, finishing the first round before Sherlock gasps for breath and opens his eyes on a groan.
"Brilliant, we've got you," John says, trying to catch his own breath from the scare. "Sherlock, you with us?" He questions, telling everyone to back off with his body language.
"What happened?" The doctor asks the detective, stepping a bit closer to hear him.
Sherlock wheezes a few more times before answering hoarsely, "He…suffocated…me."
John shuts his eyes at the close call before calling for Culverton Smith to be arrested.
"I was helping him. He started choking," the philanthropist remarks, raising his cuffed hands in front of him.
"That still doesn't explain why he 
to overdose me," Sherlock tells John with a smile.
"I did nothing of the sort," Smith insists as the officer pulls him back from the doctor.
John turns towards Culverton, explaining, "You can hit all the buttons you want, but the pump's programming will not allow you to change the doses. It requires a doctor's order and a key to do that. Neither of which you can manage."
Smith looks over at the pair unconcerned. "You can't prove any of this. There are no cameras in this room," he clarifies, his wide smile returning.
"We could just listen to the recording," Sherlock whispers a little louder, pulling himself up painfully in the bed.
Culverton Smith smiles wolfishly. "Is this a bad time to tell you that we found three recording devices in your coat. We had to confiscate them for the privacy of the patients," he purrs condescendingly.
Sherlock glances at the madman with his own weary smile. "Omne Trium Perfectum. Three is mathematically the first odd prime, the smallest unit needed to create a pattern, extraordinary in its simplicity, so ordinary people…stop…looking," the detective elucidates, a small smile playing about his lips.
"Oh, you cock," John accuses, picking up his cane. "Where'd you hide it?" He asks, then figures it out, popping the handle off and revealing the listening device which he lifts out and hands to Lestrade who's just burst into the room.
"Causing trouble again, I see," the Detective Inspector remarks dryly, taking the listening device.
Sherlock shrugs a shoulder, wincing at the pain it causes. "It's what I do," he states plainly.
"That's the truth," John adds, glancing back at his friend a little worriedly. "Please, get that rubbish out of this hospital room. I don't want to clap eyes on him again."
"John?" Sherlock whispers, holding his side, tears pricking his blue eyes.
"Just hold on," the doctor reaches out his hand for the keys, which the nurse places there. "I'm only going up 5 mg," the doctor informs Sherlock, but I'm also going to administer a sedative, so you'll rest. That's it, everybody out, except you," he points to the nurse on his right. "I need you to order another full set of labs and keep checking urine outputs. Did we get the Kionex on board?"
"Yes, sir, just as you ordered. He's also received the calcium infusion," the nurse replies, awaiting further instructions.
"Cheers. I'll also need 25 mg promethazine hydrochloride infusion over a 15-minute spread and I want a comprehensive pulmonary assessment every two hours. Thank you, Nurse Hanson," the doctor adds as he turns back towards Sherlock.
"There we go. Sherlock, you still with me?" The doctor inquires, placing his hand gently on the detective's shoulder.
His patient nods slightly before dropping his head back.
"This next infusion will help you sleep. Are the meds kicking in yet?" John asks, squeezing the detective's shoulder. "I'm going to examine you. I'll be as quick as I can, okay?"
Sherlock nods again without opening his eyes.
John lowers the sheet to the detective's waist and whistles at the damage he sees, "They really did a number on you, mate."
He palpates the ribs gently, wincing as Sherlock hisses through his teeth even with the pain meds. The detective gasps flinging his left arm over his eyes.
"Sorry, I know that hurts. I just need to check for rigidity and make sure you're not bleeding into your belly. I'm also going to check the chest tube," John clarifies, knowing that Sherlock requires as much information as he can possibly get.
The detective begins to wheeze as John finishes checking the chest tube for air leaks.
"I'm done. You can relax now," the doctor says, pulling up the sheet. "You warm enough, Sherlock?" John asks just as the nurse returns with the infusion.
Working quickly, Nurse Hanson places the bag and sets the infusion rate per the doctor's orders. "I'll be right back, Mr. Holmes," she whispers, patting his arm gently.
She steps out the door and returns momentarily with a heated blanket. "Here you go, sir. This should help you sleep," she states, before ensuring that all documentation is complete.
"Thank you, Nurse Hanson," John says gratefully, before pulling up a chair next to his friend who moans when he tries to shift position.
"I'm here, mate. Rest easy," the doctor whispers as Sherlock's eyes open for a moment. He sees John sitting beside him then closes them as relief washes over him.
Within a few minutes, the detective's breathing has evened out and John groans with exhaustion.
"Thank you, God, for letting him live," the doctor mumbles, dropping his head down on the side of the bed, staying close in case Sherlock needs him.
—-
"I haven't seen you for a few weeks," Elizabeth begins the session, watching John closely as always.
John huffs a laugh. "Yeah, it's been busy," the doctor admits, tapping his fingers nervously on his knee. He thinks again about getting a new therapist as this one unsettles him somehow.
"How is Rosie?" She asks, her accent thick and her eyes owlish behind the large frames of her glasses.
"Perfect. She's the best toddler ever and that's not just my opinion but has been scientifically proven by my flatmate," John informs the counselor readily.
"How is Sherlock Holmes?" She asks, leaning forwards awaiting the answer.
John leans back and shifts position, watching her. "He's back home and doing much better. Nearly back to normal, or what passes for it," he answers, picking at an imaginary piece of lint on his trousers. "It was too close, though," he says in a sigh after a beat.
"And his big brother Mycroft. Is he still pulling threads?" Elizabeth inquires thoughtfully, tapping her pen on the pad of paper.
"Mycroft is what he…wait? I've never mentioned anything about Mycroft to you," John notes, sitting forward in his chair.
"You must have because it's here in my notes," she says, holding them out for him to see.
John does not reach for them. "I know absolutely that I 
 mention him. Some things are not to be talked about," the doctor explains clearly, his suspicions raised.
Elizabeth sighs heavily, setting down the pen and pad of paper. "It must have been Sherlock who mentioned him then," she backpedals, standing up in front of her chair.
"You've never met him," John states carefully. "It's a quality I check for in my therapists."
"I spent an entire evening with him. We had chips and walked all over the city," she describes in another voice entirely. This isn't the woman he's been meeting with for so many weeks. "He was so very nice and extremely upset at the idea that I would consider taking my own life."
"What the bloody hell is going on here?" John demands, flying to his feet.
She brushes hair behind her ear revealing a plastic daisy like the one he accidentally took to the surgery last month.
"You have kind eyes. They remind me of the ocean on a calm day," she says in a brogue. "I'm still disappointed you never texted or called. Wouldn't that have been fun?"
John takes a threatening step towards her, and she brandishes a handgun.
"Great. Of course, I find a dodgy loony for my new therapist," John complains, running his hand through his hair.
She smiles condescendingly at him. "Technically, you picked Elizabeth Bonner. She's currently dead in a closet in the back of the house."
"Oh, that's much better," John spits sarcastically, never taking his eyes from her face.
The therapist shrugs in response.
"Seriously, who the hell are you?" John commands, taking another step closer.
"Not a good plan, John, if you want to live and I know that you do. We wouldn't want to leave poor Rosie an orphan," the fake counselor snidely replies.
John stops all forward movement.
"We're not to that point anyway. So much more to do, Dr. Watson, but unfortunately for you, I need more time, so I'd like to personally thank you for providing that," Elizabeth states gratefully before pulling the trigger.
The loud bang causes John to flinch as the bullet strikes his left shoulder. 'Bloody hell. Why do they always shoot the left shoulder?'
Falling back onto the blood red carpet, John clutches at his shoulder, when she steps menacingly closer. Standing over him she whispers, "Not yet, John." He kicks her in the abdomen knocking her from her feet. She loses the gun for the moment but doesn't let that slow her down.
Grabbing the small wooden table, she swings with all her might cracking him in the side of the head as he tries to avoid it. John shakes off the blow, but his vision blurs the room around him.
"You'll pay for that, Dr. Watson," she mutters, regaining control of the gun as he scrabbles across the floor to stop her, fighting for his life.
She turns, the gun held steadily in her hand and snarls, "It's a pity I need you for the next phase, John, or I would kill you right here."
"Sorry to spoil your plans?" John offers sarcastically.
She pulls the trigger again, shooting the chair next to his head, bits of which strike him in the face.
He flinches but does not move, maintaining eye contact much to her surprise as she succeeds in getting back to her feet, sliding further away from the lethal soldier.
"Say hello to Zephyr for me. Tell him I'm coming for him," Eurus threatens, pulling the trigger again, hitting him in the right leg.
The bullet tears into his right leg and he cries out, "Bloody hell. What is it with psychos and my fucking leg?"
"Read it in your medical file. Maybe this time you can avoid enteric fever, eh?" She relates, dropping back into the lilting brogue.
His watering eyes still find hers again. "Sod off," John curses at her as she turns and offers a little wave with a smile. Dropping the glasses, she steps on them, breaking them into pieces.
"Nice meeting you, Dr. Watson. Give Rosie a little kiss for me," she purrs, actually blowing him a kiss.
Moving down the short hall, she drops the gun in the flower vase by the front entrance.
She walks out the door leaving it wide open. He watches the doorway to the therapy room for several moments praying she doesn't come back and can't help but feel relief when he realizes she's finally gone. The nausea from the adrenaline spike nearly makes him spew.
John lays back for a moment and takes a deep breath before fishing out his mobile. He quickly dials 999, knowing that he doesn't have a lot of time because he's been here before.
"999 operator. Which service do you require?" The man on the line inquires.
"Ambulance," John says, gritting through his teeth, gasping in pain.
"London Ambulance Service, what is your location?" the emergency handler answers.
"416 Inverness Terrace. My name…Dr. Watson…I'm twice shot," he relays quickly amidst pain-filled wheezes whilst trying to remove his belt and breathe to stave off shock for another few minutes. He focuses on the clacking of the keyboard in the background as the handler types in the information.
Nausea wells up in his throat as the room heaves up around him, making him sick. Regaining some equilibrium, he finally gets his belt unbuckled.
He slides the belt out and wraps it around his thigh as tightly as he can, knowing as a doctor it won't be enough, but something is better than nothing. He starts the timer counting on his phone. Two hours. That's the maximum time that blood flow should be compromised.
"Awww. Fuck…sorry…phone DI Lestrade…need to...ring off…" he rasps, putting pressure on his shoulder, struggling as things become blurred around him. He dials a number he knows better than his own and drops the mobile on the floor on speakerphone.
"John, I'm on my way to meet you. We have much to discuss as I found the letter," Sherlock rambles forth as soon as he answers.
John hisses out in pain as he tightens the tourniquet, glancing at the timer, feeling like it's been hours, when the reality is minutes. "Sherlock, I've been…shot…twice…Tell Rosie…" the doctor imparts upon the detective.
"John, I'm nearly there. Save that rubbish as you'll tell Rosie yourself," Sherlock promises, urging the driver to go even faster.
The cabbie stops at the address, and Sherlock peels off a tenner and leaps from the taxi. He rushes through the open front door, spotting the gun in the vase.
"John?" He yells out from the entryway, turning as he hears gasping and racing down the hall to find John on the floor bleeding all over a red plush rug.
"Hey…." John greets, as his pressure on his shoulder is waning since he's losing consciousness. "Watch the puke," John cautions as he combats the urge to vomit again.
Sherlock kneels next to his flatmate, unwinding his scarf and pushing it into John's left shoulder.
"People will talk, John," he warns, as he reorients himself so that his left knee presses down on the femoral artery in the groin, causing John to cry out. "I know, John." Sherlock then uses the heel of his right hand to increase the aggressive downward pressure on the doctor's shoulder wound, causing his friend to lose consciousness momentarily.
"John!" Sherlock yells. "Keep your eyes on me. I need you to open your eyes. Now," the detective orders, and the doctor's eyes twitch with the effort to listen. A small slit of blue peeks through his eyelids.
"They're nearly here, just focus on me," the detective commands, putting as much grit into his voice as he can manage. The strain of putting so much pressure on John's body weakens him as he's not quite a hundred percent himself.
Sherlock's body begins to tremble from the effort, and he still will not yield.
"Sir, we're here now and we need you to move so we can treat him," the detective hears a gentle voice in his ear.
Sherlock takes a moment to command his body to move unsuccessfully. "Apparently, I'm locked in this position," he admits in a soft whisper.
Understanding crosses her face and she braces him as her partner gets ready to take over the pressure.
Sherlock regains his equilibrium and feeling in his limbs, watching as they start an IV and try to ask his flatmate questions.
"What's his name?" one of them asks urgently.
"Dr. John Watson," the detective automatically supplies.
The woman taps his cheek gently, saying, "John, we need you to stay awake if you can."
Loading him up onto the trolley, they start for the ambulance.
Sherlock follows, running alongside the cart, holding onto John's hand. They raise the doctor into the ambulance. He steps inside and sits out of the way, re-establishing contact as soon as he is able.
"Stay with us, John. Rosie needs you," he mumbles the reminder as the paramedic works to stabilize his friend. "I need you," Sherlock's whispered plea seems to have fallen on deaf ears.
—-
The steady beep of the monitor offers Sherlock comfort that John will eventually be alright.
"It's been three days, John. Rosie misses her father," the detective tries, his tone unhappy that the doctor remains unconscious.
Sherlock sighs heavily, filling the doctor in on what he's missed. "You've had several surgeries. One to remove the bullets from your shoulder and your leg. Another to wire your collarbone and affix two plates to your scapula with four screws. There's talk about another surgery to drain the fluid from your brain if this continues," the detective informs his friend wearily.
Pulling his computer into his lap, Sherlock watches the footage from Elizabeth Bonner's last therapy session with John, hoping to catch something new this time. He's been through it seventeen times, and it always ends the same. John bleeding on the floor and Eurus vanishing from the room.
He smiles this time when John kicks her in the stomach. He always goes down swinging.
The woman on the screen strongly resembles the Faith Smith who came to the flat. He's 93 percent sure they're the same person. When she changes accents again, John's startled look and the toy in her hair makes Sherlock think that John met her somewhere before.
The detective hits play on the audio file Mya sent him once again. The room fills with the sounds of Rosie's giggling and babbling. Sherlock asked her for at least thirty minutes of recorded sounds which he plays on a loop for the injured doctor for the bottom half of the hour.
A slight shifting from the bed grabs Sherlock's attention and he pauses in his work. "John?" He questions, hoping that the doctor wakes.
Reaching forward, Sherlock takes John's right hand in his. "Squeeze if you can hear me, John," the detective imitates the interaction between his blogger and the nursing staff he's seen so many times with negative results.
"John, squeeze my hand right now," the detective adds petulantly, his fear slightly overshadowing his reason.
The doctor's fingers move ever so slightly against his own, and he nearly cheers out loud. "That's it, John. I'm right here. Rosie misses you. Time to come back," Sherlock pulls every available tool out of the arsenal.
John's eyes open a sliver, followed by a muted groan.
Sherlock reaches across the doctor and summons a nurse who hurriedly rushes down the hall into the room. "I think he's waking up," he tells the nurse as she comes to the bed to check on John's vitals.
"Looks like," the attendant responds hopefully, then presses the button for the nurse's station to request Dr. Milner.
Within minutes, the attending doctor races into the room and crosses to the bed. Flashing a light to check pupillary reflex, the man looks pleased. "Looks good. Dr. Watson, can you hear me?" He asks his patient, laying a kindly hand on John's shoulder.
A louder moan resonates from the bed, and John struggles through the darkness to wake himself up. "Sh'lock," the good doctor slurs, his eyes barely open, his vision blurry.
"I'm here, John," the detective responds loudly to the summons. "I am right here."
—-
"Bloody hell," John curses, trying to get his shirt buttoned.
"Allow me to help you, please. We will be able to leave sooner," Sherlock advises.
"Nineteen days, Sherlock," the doctor notes, finally giving up and allowing the detective to help him. Sherlock finishes buttoning the shirt, rolling his eyes dramatically at his flatmate's frustration.
"It'll take as long as it takes, John. Also, you only counted the days you were conscious. I've been here for twenty-two days," the detective says with a little smile.
"Stop throwing my damn words back at me. It's bloody annoying, Sherlock," John rebukes, sliding his feet into shoes. "Ok, I'm completely knackered, but I'm wearing clothes," the doctor complains, sitting gingerly in the wheelchair with help from the nurse.
Reaching behind her, the nurse gathers the complex discharge papers and several prescriptions.
John takes them from her and reads each one carefully, handing back the one narcotic in the group. "I told you I'm not taking that," the doctor informs her, and she puts her hands on her hips.
"Dr. Milner wants you to take them home just in case," Millie reports efficiently.
John shakes his head, points at Sherlock, and says, "Former addict." Then he gestures to himself. "Sister is an alcoholic. No narcotics," he states firmly, and she smiles down at him.
"Very well, but your pain pills will wear off soon after you get home, and you're already a tad cantankerous," Millie adds with a huge smile, hoping to take some of the sting out of the comment.
"It'll be 
 of fun," Sherlock interjects, grabbing the laptop bags and duffel brought in by Lestrade.
"Cheers! We all agree," John says sarcastically, grasping the arm of the wheelchair as it moves.
Getting out to the entrance, they see Greg Lestrade waiting patiently with Emily.
"Hi, Uncle John," she yells, bouncing up and down with excitement.
"Hey, Emmie," John says brightly, genuinely happy to see her. He offers a smile which fades when he grasps the reality that he has to move out of this wheelchair.
"You want me to help you, Uncle John? Dad says I'm a pretty awesome helper," she notes, her expression serious.
"I know you are," John replies, "but you'll probably need to cover your ears."
Emily laughs holding her sides, "Dad says bad words all the time,".
"Emmie," Greg says sternly. "Leave John alone for a mo, so he can catch his breath."
"Sorry, Uncle John. I'll be in the car," she says, leaning over and kissing him on his right cheek.
"Thank you, Emmie," John mutters, watching her jog to the car and get in the front seat.
Sherlock offers his hand to help John from the wheelchair, grasping his right elbow firmly and levering him to standing.
John bites the inside of his cheek, as the pain intensifies but is still manageable, then sits on the seat with a groan. "Shit. Sorry, Emmie," he gasps, laughing when he looks up and her hands are indeed over her ears.
Getting him seated in the back, Sherlock jogs around to the other side and gets in the vehicle.
—-
"I'm fine," John insists, sitting on the sofa, his leg propped up on pillows and Rosie in his arms. "
 is all I need right now."
Sherlock does his level best to ignore the exhaustion in the doctor's eyes.
"I'll make tea," the detective suggests, moving into the kitchen, and putting a tray together with some of John's favourites and a beaker (sippy cup) of milk for Rosie.
Heading back out into the living room, he grabs the paper as well. Setting the service on the coffee table, he hands John his cup and Rosie hers.
Taking a deep breath, he sits down on the chair he's pulled over in case John needs him.
"You will stay in my room until stairs don't make you curse," Sherlock states, holding a hand up as John takes a breath to argue. "Be practical, John."
John shakes his head, holding Rosie as close as he can with only one arm as she bounces up and down.
The doctor flinches as his pain increases from her antics.
Be careful with your father, Sherylyn," Sherlock imparts upon the toddler. "Time for your meds now, John."
John rolls his blue eyes, glaring at his flatmate. "I'm fine," the doctor repeats, appreciating Sherlock's concern but annoyed with the odd hovering.
The detective holds up the paper, showing John the article on the front page. "They've finally sentenced Culverton Smith to a Whole Life Term in prison. He's confirmed killing forty-one people," Sherlock shares the information, wishing he'd seen it sooner.
"I owe Claire Harrington a debt of gratitude for bringing it to my attention. However, were I to see her again, I'm mostly inclined to end her existence," Sherlock admits to his friend as Rosie settles to sleep in her father's arms.
"I know the feeling," John confesses openly. "She nearly took me from my daughter's life and that's unforgivable."
"Her deadly intentions will not come to fruition, John," Sherlock states emphatically.
"She's still out there, Sherlock," John rasps, trying to reign in the absolute fury he feels when he even thinks about her.
John's hand begins to tremble, and Sherlock rescues his cup of tea.
"You need to rest, John," The detective proposes, getting up from his chair and setting his own cup down on the tray.
"I don't want to move yet. Look at her, she's perfect," John says with a smile, looking down at his kipping daughter.
"I would expect nothing less given her lineage," Sherlock praises, nodding his head at the child. "A few minutes more should be fine. I'll clean up," the detective volunteers.
"Who are you and what have you done with my flatmate?" John teases, chuckling softly with a wince as he jostles his shoulder.
Sherlock clears the tray, bringing it into the kitchen and washing the dishes quickly. Coming back to the sofa, he sees John's head nod forward in exhaustion.
As he steps into the room, John pops upright with a grimace of pain. "Jesus," he moans, holding his left arm in close but his daughter closer.
Sherlock steps over to the sofa. "Let me take her, John. I will bring you back in moments," the detective stipulates, but John shakes his head.
"Sherlock, I don't think I can let her go," John pleads, looking to his friend for support.
The detective studies the situation and lays a hand on John's. "Then you don't have to," Sherlock affirms, formulating a plan.
Gently pulling cushions from the back of the sofa, he lays them on the floor, scooting the coffee table away. John settles into the space that Sherlock has created with a heavy sigh. Closing his eyes, with the Union Jack pillow at his back, he drifts off, only to open his eyes once again.
"John, I'm right here and the east wind will not descend upon us tonight. Close your eyes and rest," Sherlock whispers, moving to his chair to keep watch over one of the few people he calls friend.
