Sherlock had not seen his family in almost 11 months, not even Mycroft and Qwendolyn, his siblings whom he was closest with. But it was Christmas and he had to make his yearly appearance or people would start to worry. And Sherlock didn't need people worrying about him. Mycroft had found out about his self harm a few years prior and had made Sherlock promise he would get help and stop cutting. And he had tried, truly but without success. Somehow Sherlock had managed to convince Mycroft that he was clean for the past few years. Not even he quite understood how he managed to fool the highly intelligent man but Sherlock had always been a little smarter than his older brother. Although there had been a few close calls, his secret was still safe.
Sherlock was an addict. He wasn't just a slave to self harm but also to all sorts of drugs. He wasn't in denial about this. He was very aware of it though he did not see this as a problem. Why do I have to quit if it's only hurting me? It only hurts other people if they know about it which is why he put a lot of effort into hiding his self destructive behaviors. He had been planning for Christmas with the family for multiple weeks now. He knew Mycroft would be deducing his every move but he felt confident he would be able to continue to fool his brother into thinking he was sober and clean. He had restricted himself to only cutting his legs and not his arms last few days so they wouldn't be in any sort of pain or sensitive to touch. He also made an effort to not shoot up but instead stick with snorting and smoking for almost the past 2 months so there were hardly any noticeable track marks on his arms. That way even in the terrible events that Mycroft forced Sherlock to show him his arms the drugs would still be a secret. And although it took every bit of Sherlocks willpower he decided to be sober for this gathering.
He was very much regretting his decision to attend this stupid christmas party as he walked up the road to his childhood home. But before he could turn around and catch a cab back to 221 baker street his mother saw him and waved him inside. The moment he entered the home he felt lots of childhood memories flood back to him. Playing in the yard as a toddler, his first cigarette on the roof when he was 15, his dad drunk on the couch every night. The moment he walked into the dinning room he heard a very familiar voice
"Ah Hello brother mine, How have you been?"
I knew by "how have you been" he wanted to know if I was clean. I could feel his eyes darting around my whole body looking for evidence I wasn't.
"Just fine. I see you've gained a few pounds. Diet not going well?"I hoped this would piss him off enough to get him to stay away from me for a while.I was right, it did. He gave me an angered look and walked into a different room. I smirked. Everyone loved Mycroft more than Me. He had always been the favored Holmes sibling. My parents and Grandparents loved me no doubt but Myc had always been the more successful and normal one out of the three of us.
Where is Qwendolyn anyways? How unfair it would be if i had to attend this stupid event and she didn't.
"Mum, where is Qwen?" but she was too busy praising Myc to even hear me.
After about 4 hours of being compared to his older brother by every relativ at the party, Sherlock couldn't take it anymore. The feelings of self loathing were starting to cloud his mind. " Why cant you be more like myc?", "Have you ever thought of getting a real job like your brother?". He hated being such an outsider in his own family. No matter how hard he tried to be Normal and like everyone else he couldn't. He was a freak and he hated it. He hated himself. He was trying to convince himself he didn't have the need for a blade on his skin , but he couldn't. He knew this was what he needed. The urge was consuming his waking mind. The thought of it was crawling down his brain and onto his arms making them itch and ache like mad. Sherlock knew exactly what he needed. His body was pleading for him to destroy it.
Would it be too risky to cut right now? Just a few. He wouldn't go deep.
Fuck.
He hated not being in control of his urges. But he needed this. It felt like he'd never needed something as bad as he needed the pain in this moment. He needed to hurt himself. He needed to feel something other than this self hatred. If he was going to relieve the urge he was going to have to be smart about it since Mycroft was still eyeing his every move.
Shit shit shit the feeling was killing him.
Maybe it would be better to just pop a xanax? Though that would be more obvious.
No self harm was definitely his safest option if he wanted to avoid suspicion. He could feel mycs eyes burning into his back. It felt like Sherlock was about to explode.
