Chapter one: M is for Mollandra
"I heard Dublin's nice around this time of year."
"Are you going to murder Molly, Sherlock?"
I can honestly say I hadn't considered that possibility. I eye my untouched tea on the table with a deserved amount of suspicion.
Sherlock blinks, lowering his own untouched tea from hovering over his lips. "I beg your pardon? What could have led you to that idiotic observation?"
"I can't think of any other explanation for what is happening right now. 
 Do you even hear yourself? And you!" Which would be me, unfortunately. I eye his wagging finger with much scepticism, leaning back into the sofa to gain some distance. "Been skipping out on work have you? To- to drink tea with Sherlock?"
"Actually I'm on maternity leave." No I'm not.
"No she's not. Ignore her, she's recently been mortifyingly traumatised. Tea?" Sherlock sighs grievously as John only gapes after a blank moment of confusion, looking positively mortified himself.
Sherlock groans in disgust, rolling his eyes."Oh don't be ridiculous, why in the world would I want to murder Molly of all people? No offence to you, Molly, of course."
Is that something to be offended about? "Alright."
"What do you mean 
 are you- 
 Molly? What's happened? You can tell me anything, you know that, right? In fact, Sherlock, why don't you bugger off so me and Molly-"
"Don't bother, she won't tell you what happened. She probably doesn't even know what really happened given she's split off into a separate personality to avoid facing said trauma."
John looks like he's caught between laughing at this poor attempt at a joke, but the stretch of silence has this odd half smile collapsing quickly. "You're not joking..?"
"You have a very morbid sense of humour John, why in the world would I ever joke about that?"
Sherlock watches with much intensity as I decide to take a gamble and pick up the tea. I sniff it suspiciously, before scrunching up my face and placing it back onto the scratched table top. Better not.
"What's the matter?" Sherlock asks slowly, intrigued. I give him a suspicious look, leaning back once again in my seat and gesturing towards the innocent looking cup unsurely.
"That smells like metal."
"That's because it's infused with pig's blood." He looks utterly fascinated with my caution.
"Sherlock!" John shouts, disparagingly, sending a disturbed look towards the cup himself. "What, are you trying to further traumatise the poor woman? What is actually the matter with you?"
"Well, she didn't drink any of it, did she? There's no reason to have your knickers in a twist. I was simply proving something to myself."
"
Gods. The nerve on you, Sherlock, honestly.."
"And this surprises you because— 
 are you going?"
I pause, the doorknob halfway turned. I easily open the door as I turn to face the ogling pair. I look back towards the rickety stairs as if it's obvious, because it really should be, and then back towards them. "Uhh- out?"
"Out? Out where?" Sherlock leaps up from his chair, slamming his teacup onto the tabletop himself in seemingly a bout of petulance.
"Out.." I think for a moment, at a loss on how to explain that I would like to reaffirm that I am actually in fictional England. "Well, outside.."
"I suppose consuming something edible would be good for stabilising your mental state.." Sherlock mutters, much to the apparent abhor of John.
"Oh, that's quite enough from you Sherlock, bloody help you are for 'stabilising a woman's mental state!'" John proclaims in a huff. He stalks towards me with determination, and I can only watch the approaching man with much resignation. "Alright, Molly? Why don't I take you out to lunch, yeah?"
"It's not been one hour into her delusion and you're already hitting on Mollandra."
John sputters, looking quite offended, and I am not really sure if I should be offended by the fact that he's offended. "
I was 
-"
"You really are shameless John."
"Mollandra?" I question curiously after a moment of deliberation, the odd title finally catching up to me beneath John's sputtering.
Sherlock turns to look at me, a victorious grin seemingly sprouting from nowhere onto his face. "Yes, you see, I've decided to name you as such, seeing as you aren't currently Molly right now, really, are you? Hmm, so, the most appropriate decision for now is to call you by some other name. Mollandra."
"That is the stupidest thing I have ever heard." John is quick to refute, looking offended on my behalf.
I tip my head, considering the name unsurely. "My name 
Molly though…"
Sherlock nods his head, mind clearly made. "Mollandra it is."
