As A bright yellow cab comes to a stop the young woman within sighs while she straitens her skirt down when she exits and thanks the older cabbie for bringing her as she finally pays the fare. When she looks up at the foreboding building she can make out a man in one of the windows, even from afar she can tell the figure is to tall to be her brother, John Watson. As the young woman starts to the door and middle aged man with disheveled hair rushes around her and out of the same building she was told belonged to her brother, John and his roommate, who he completely forgot to mention anything about. She started up the flight of stairs in a huff over the seemingly rude man that rushed out of the building just seconds earlier.
Just as she reaches the door to the apartment and started to open the door did the man from the window-or so she believed- turned and acknowledged the young woman who entered the flat. "Jade!" John Exclaimed, "Your here, is Everything alright with Harry? What are you doing here?"
Jade the young woman with an annoyed expression now displayed on her face explained her arrival, unannounced. "Well John, Brother dear, if you would actually answer that Damned phone of yours you would have known that Harry is just fine on their own. Furthermore you would also know that YOU have giving me a near heart attack when you just up and left after we were both dismissed!"
John then turned a rather unattractive red, stuttering, "O-oh yes W-well, you see I found a therapist here and it seems to be working." She just raised her perfectly shaped eyebrow in disbelieve, "Oh, and that just GIVES you the RIGHT to move here with little more than a 'See ya around' to your FAMILY?!"
"W-well when you put it like that-" John tries as Jade continues her rant, all the while Sherlock stands there observing the young woman that is all but screaming at his new flat mate. "And if that wasn't enough John! I find out that you moved countries into a flat with a COMPLETE stranger-" She turns to Sherlock sarcastically, "No Offence to you, I'm sure you are not a lunatic that is going to kill him." "Non-taken love," Sherlock amusingly replies.
