Well, I'm utterly shocked. When I woke up today I didn't know that I was going to post anything. Least of all, a story belonging to this fandom.
I must confess that the first part of this one-shot belongs to a much longer story, but I'm really awful at long stories, so... here we are. — And I think it will stay as a drawerfic for a long time anyway. — Let's say this is another version. And a much shorter one.
I'd love your feedback. Just saying...
Please, have in mind that English is not my first language. It is unbeta-ed, so mistakes are all mine.
This is an "unresolved" angst, post-season 4 (I love angst and happy endings, but this is too short to get to that, you know).
This story is written just for fun, as the stories about Sherlock Holmes and all the characters belong to Sir Conan Doyle and Moffat and Gatiss.
The call ended abruptly as well as the beating of her heart. That was it. He got what he wanted and that was all. Nothing else mattered. 
 else mattered. It had always been like that. So no wonder, right?
She placed the phone on the kitchen counter and took the mug in her hands. The heat didn't reach her fingertips, though. Not completely. She was shaking, in fact. Molly put the tea mug back on the cold and hard surface and leant on, pressing her forehead against it. She wanted to be numb, the coldness to numb her brain, her thoughts. But it was to no avail.
 It all spun around and around in her head. All a joke. She was a joke, an experiment. 
. Yet another lie.
Saying that she was having the worst day of her life would have been an understatement. Even in her father's funeral she had felt better. Much more, indeed. Right then she had had friends and acknowledges that had tried to comfort her.
That bloody phone call. Deep inside her, he had tainted those three words forever. She had tried to avoid saying them, did everything she could. She had begged him, told him that it was the truth. That it always had. But he had been relentless. She had thought that he would care for her enough not to push her any further. But it seemed he wouldn't. So she had asked him to say them first. —Because he wouldn't, right?! At least he could do that for her. Not to lie. Not about that. And she had beem proved to be wrong. Again. 
. He had said them even twice! And the worst of it all was that they had felt so true that it had torn her heart apart. She had known she would never believe those words any more, – and definitely not from him, but she said them back anyway.
She could not cry.
, she thought. 
.
She had been crying all day. She heard about the bomb at Sherlock's apartment when she was at Barts. It had been the day before, but she hadn't known anything about it till then. None of them had told her: John, Lestrade, Mrs. Hudson.. nor Sherlock. She felt so betrayed, so out of place. After having searched thoroughly on the Internet, she found nothing. It seemed that no one was dead or injured, but she knew better. Maybe Mycroft could have... She texted Sherlock immediately, but he didn't answer. Nor did John. She ran back into the morgue colliding with walls and doors and people like a madwoman, then uncovered all the new bodies, trembling and sobbing. None of them were there.
Afterwards Molly went home and called Lestrade, feeling as her heart stopped while she was waiting for an answer. Greg told her that all of them were sound and safe. Even Mrs Hudson. That Sherlock and John were in a case.
All the worry and grieve turned into anger then, and finally into tears full of bitterness. Millions and millions of them covered her face, her neck, her jumper. And that was a sharper and awakening slap than the three he got from her years before.
And just when she was just pulling herself together, Sherlock phoned.
Never had her heart felt so devastated, so void. 
. Maybe it was the same way how he felt? 
, she told herself. 
.
She looked at the kitchen clock. Five thirty. It was early to go to bed, but she was longing for the end of the day. So, she went straight to her room.
Molly Hooper didn't strip herself, just let her body collapse on her neat bed. She lay there for a while and suddenly caught a glance of something purple inside her wardrobe. She got up and stroked the fabric, feeling a tight knot in her throat. Pulling on the garment, it fell on her hands, and she pressed it greedily against her chest. She padded back to the bed and inhaled from the shirt. It smelled so like him.
It was then that she realised that, once again, she had been wrong as the tears welled up in her eyes and her heart ached as it never had before.
Some noises brought her back to consciousness. There was someone fumbling in her kitchen. Or were they in her living room? Did she really care? Not in the least. Let them rob her all she had left.
She couldn't feel any emptier than she already felt anyway.
A mewl told her otherwise. She still had Toby, didn't she? Willing herself to get up with a heavy sigh, she peeled off the covers and headed to her bedroom door naked-handed. In her head, certain detective's voice warned her to take the Swiss knife he had left in her nightstand years ago, but she discarded it with a wave of her hand. She could not trust him. Not anymore.
Molly stopped dead in her tracks when she caught a glance of the intruder. An endless stream of emotions flooded in, almost choking her. She embraced herself until there were only relief and disappointment – well, and that bloody traitor people were so fond of. Love. What was wrong with her? Why couldn't she just hate him? Or be as oblivious to his presence as he was to hers?
He paused, highly aware of her presence, but didn't turn around. What could he possibly tell her? - I'm sorry for exposing you bare for all to see? For using you once again? And for nothing at all. Just for his sister's enjoyment. And his full awareness.
All in all, it had ripped him open to the bone and showed him that he cared for her much more than he had previously conceded. But he'd rather be oblivious than hurt her the way he had. He'd rather have had a dog and one sibling. His awareness wasn't worth her suffering. He wasn't worth her suffering but her despair and hatred.
Never had he felt so lost. Not even the time he had desperately sought for her help. His brain, the very one thing he had put beyond everything else had been deceiving him almost all his life. So much for the one and only consulting detective! He was a fraud. And such a coward. The dog, the drugs, Mycroft… He had spent all his entire existence hiding from pain and hurting the ones he should have cherished just because of the fear of feeling that hurt himself. What a hypocrite!
Her vanilla scented shampoo reached his nostrils and his longing for her embrace increased tenfold. It was so clear now. How could he have missed it? How could he have ignored his feelings so blatantly? According to Mycroft, he must have been the biggest loser in the world. Not only was he in love, but he had done all in his might to choke the love she felt for him. 
Sherlock's body was trembling, but he resumed his task, pulling out hidden wires from her kitchen cupboards. They seemed to be surveillance cameras. Many questions flooded her mind now — were they his? Who had seen her in her home? 
 had seen her telling him...?
Her hand covered her mouth and she tasted the bile, eager to mar her carpet. The noise of a stubborn wire brought her attention to the only consulting detective. He was angry — no, he was mad. She observed him — as so many times he asked them to do —, really. His hands were bruised and shaking, his beautiful curls were all grassy and full of... splinters? His shoulders were a little slumped... Behind the ire, he seemed defeated. Hurt. Sad. Something must have happened. Something important and awful.
Unconsciously, her hand tried to reach out for him, but she stopped herself. No. She didn't want to know. She promised him she would be there for him. Always. Though she couldn't keep her promise right now. It hurt so much. The wound was very raw and open. So, she turned around and went back to bed.
"I'm so sorry", he whispered, barely audible. It didn't stop her.
By the time she woke up, he had been long gone.
He stood there, in her kitchen, and heard her light footsteps as she left. He had felt her warmth when she had approached him, almost felt her fingertips on his shoulder and then... nothing.
His hands pulled at his curls in frustration, not knowing what to do. 
And then his traitorous mind brought back memories where her actions had said 
 and his... well, not so. The times she had worried about him, and he had joked and laughed at her. The times he had ignored her. That awful Christmas... Were they any different from what his sister made him do?
The deep pain in his chest reminded him his brother's words about lovers being losers. 
 
.
