John was happy. He was with his life's love. He loved Mary, and she loved him, too. His everyday life felt like he was stepping on a cloud. It was like he was flying in the breeze of the spring and bright sunshine. John and Mary whispered sweet words to each other and they were happy together.
John visited Sherlock once in a while with Mary or alone. When Sherlock had a case and asked him for help, he didn't come. He was busy decorating baby's room. Their baby was to born in months. And he could not visit Sherlock for a long time. And Sherlock was fading in his head even though he didn't mean to...
After a month or so, John and Mary was taking a stroll. They just had lunch at a restaurant, and they were headed to their house when John found the sign 'Baker Street'. That reminded of his best friend or who used to be, and he wanted to visit his friend.
"Mary, go home and take a rest. I want to visit Sherlock."
"Oh, I can follow?"
John didn't know why, but he didn't want it. He wanted to see his friend alone.
"Well, please let me go alone, my love. It won't take a long time."
So when Mary was gone, he lead the accustomed load to where Sherlock would be. He was pleased at the thought of seeing Sherlock. He hadn't seen him for a while, so he thought Sherlock would be glad. He hummed an amusing melody as he stepped on 17 stairs. He knew Sherlock would recognize his footsteps. When he opened the door of flat where once belonged to him, he called his friend's name.
"Sherlock?"
No one replied. No, Sherlock didn't reply. It was strange. Was he sleeping? John went to check his bedroom, but the door was locked. He hesitantly knocked his room.
"Sherlock, are you here?"
But he could hear no sound. It was so silent that he could hear his watch ticking. Wasn't he at home? John felt disappointed as he slowly walked home. He knew that he wasn't paying attention to his friend and he felt sorriness washed over his mind.
The next day, John went to Baker Street again. He wanted to see if Sherlock was doing fine. He asked Mrs. Hudson if Sherlock was home.
"Of course! He isn't going out these days. It is even making me a little worried."
"Well, don't worry about him. I'll go up and talk with him."
As he walked up the stairs, he felt doubtful. Why couldn't he see him the day before? Well, he was going to find it out.
"Sherlock!"
He opened the door and called, but he wasn't home at least, it seemed so. He checked the door of his bedroom, and it was locked. So, where was he? The landlady said he was home. Where had he gone? John double checked all the rooms, but he wasn't there.
