Note: I work in the same city where the Borden murders took place, Fall River, Massachusetts. I have often wondered if Sherlock Holmes could actually solve this case which remains unsolved to this day. Would Lizzie Borden have even stood trial, if she did would she be acquitted like she was in reality? Would she have been found guilty and hanged, as that was the penalty for a murder conviction in Massachusetts at the time? Or would Sherlock Holmes deduce that someone else hacked Mr. and Mrs. Borden to death? Everyone living in this area has their own theory, this is mine framed within the life of the Consulting Detective.
The ships and places are historically accurate however, I may have fudged the dates a little to better fit the story. The Savoy in NYC was demolished in 1965 and the Mohican Hotel was destroyed in The Great Fire of 1928. Many of the original furnishings from the Bordens' house were destroyed as well when a storage facility burned down. ( wiki/Great_Fall_River_fire_of_1928. Photos of the ruins can be seen file/d/1-E7_l-eB_XQ2hM_yKor7JjMNr8UbzLVd/view?usp=sharing ) The house where the murders occured is now a bed and breakfast. The courtroom Lizzie Borden was tried in was still in use for criminal trials until 2008 and is still in use for civil trials (I was seated on a jury for a murder trial in that very courtroom in 2008). I have also tried to capture the culture of the city at the time including the less favourable parts. The meals are authentic. (I, myself, make a delicious tourtière.)
In the 1870's there was a large influx of immigrants. French Canadians, Irish, and Portuguese were the main groups that became permanent residents. They came to work in the cotton mills, many of which were built with locally quarried granite. Quarry Street was named after the quarry that much of this granite came from. By 1876 Fall River was second only to Manchester, England in the production of cotton print fabric. A list of mill buildings and their current status can be found here: wiki/List_of_mills_in_Fall_River,_Massachusetts
Distrust was rampant between the older families (such as the Bordens) and the immigrants and amongst the immigrants themselves. Different areas of the city were claimed by various groups; The French Canadians lived in the Flint, the Irish in Corky Row, for example. The population in 1890 was almost 75,000 rising to over 100,000 by 1900. The Bordens employed a domestic servant by the name of Bridget Sullivan but called her Maggie. Maggie was their former servant's name.
Today (2022) the population is near 90,000. Mills are being converted into apartments from their former use as outlet shops. Some are being converted into state or municipal use or for use as medical offices. Still others have been demolished due to safety concerns or fire. The last operating textile company, Duro Textiles, LLC, closed permanently in 2016.
This background sets the scene. This is written as Benedict Cumberbatch's Sherlock Holmes against an American Victorian background. He and Molly are courting and John has lost Mary but has found love again. John is the narrator of the story.
The stage is set, the curtain rises, we are ready to begin.
Period photographs and other related images can be found here:
mcooney5748/the-adventure-of-the-american-hatchet/
" The Adventure of the American Hatchet"
As soon as I stepped off the ship I felt the difference between America and England. Of course, after the eight days my friend, Mr. Sherlock Holmes, and I spent/ on the steamship SS City of New York from Liverpool to New York and a much shorter journey on the Puritan to Fall River, Massachusetts I knew we were no longer in England. It was obvious in more ways than one that we weren't in London anymore.
The SS City of New York is one of the fastest ships to sail across the Atlantic. Holmes and I took full advantage of all the first class accommodations allowed us. Fine meals, comfortable beds, and an en suite all made for very comfortable travel. I don't think that Holmes thought much of it either way. Holmes took to luxury like a duck to water, whereas I never took it for granted.
On September 7, 1892 at 6:38 PM we landed in New York City. In New York we found a bustling city much like our home city of London. There were the normal sights, smells, and sounds of the docks but there was something quite different as well. The people were rougher, bolder, less reserved. The smells, sights, and sounds of the port combined were energising. To my chagrin, albeit mild, Holmes and I did not have the time to explore the city; we needed to be on another steam ship early the next morning.
After spending a night at the Savoy Hotel and an additional trip on the Fall River Line's steamship Puritan, we arrived in Fall River, Massachusetts without fanfare.
A short cab ride later and we checked into the Mohican Hotel at 6 North Main Street. Our accommodations were certainly not as comfortable as the Savoy or, perhaps, our flat at Baker Street but it would do while we investigated this case. After settling into our respective rooms, we met again in the dining room to have our evening meal. We engaged in light conversation over our dinner. I had ordered the poached cod, Holmes enjoyed a tourtière, a meat pie with French-Canadian origins. Despite the unfamiliar seasonings, I was satisfied and fulfilled.
Later, Holmes and I sat in the reading room. He filled his pipe and I opened my cigarette case. Nursing a brandy he said, "Watson, this is quite the case. Two people, slaughtered in their own home. The step-mother first; the father second. I find it implausible that none of the house's occupants, the younger daughter and the family servant, would have heard anything but I will reserve judgement until we see the house. I will need you to look over the post-mortems, you can provide some insight to events." A few seconds of silence prevailed and my friend sighed, "I do wish Hooper were here. Sh…. he would certainly be able to aid us."
I didn't have an acceptable answer for him. Yes, Dr. Hooper would be able to help, his knowledge and expertise greatly outshone my own in pathology but his presence may have been scandalous. Doctor Matthew Hooper was currently the lead pathologist at Saint Bartholomew's Hospital. Over a few years of many cases and not getting along, professional respect developed and then a friendship grew between them. It wasn't long before Holmes realised Hooper's true identity. He claims he knew that Mathew was a woman since they first met but I suspect that it wasn't until the near end of the Ricoletti case that Holmes knew definitively that Hooper was, indeed, a woman. Holmes claims that he knew much earlier.
Matthew was given the name Margaret when she was born. Her family called her Molly. She was denied entrance to medical school solely on the basis of her sex and she had applied to most schools in the kingdom. In the wake of all the rejections Matthew Hooper was born. Matthew was readily accepted into any medical school he applied to. He chose to attend St. Bart's. All it took was a faux moustache, affecting a deepening of her natural voice, and clothing that hid her natural form. After graduating at nearly the top of his class Matthew Hooper took a position in the morgue of St. Bart's and in an amazingly short time reached the position of head pathologist. Matthew enjoyed his position. The patients were no longer among the living and visitors were few. The deception was easier to maintain this way.
"The Woman", Irene Adler, was one of two women that interested Holmes, Miss Margaret Hooper was the other. Miss Adler, the adventuress, outwitted Holmes. It appeared for some time that his interest in her went beyond the professional. I now understand that his interest was just a short fascination, nothing more. His heart and devotion was with Miss Hooper.
Miss Hooper (I only refer to her as Doctor when in her Matthew persona, at her request) was the woman that melted the frozen wall around Holmes' heart. The Ricoletti Case began the thaw and it grew warmer and warmer as the months drew on. In her Matthew persona a chaperone was not needed as no one would question two gentlemen dining for their evening meal at the Athenaeum Club or enjoying an after dinner brandy. Miss Hooper's appearance as a male, Holmes' Bohemian attitude, and her own relaxed attitude toward propriety stated clearly that they didn't want one.
I would often find them at Baker Street when coming home after walking through the park with Miss Sarah Sawyer. I did feel that the dinners at the men's club would soon end and a woman would move into the flat. Holmes had been hinting about a proposal of marriage. I know he had already asked his brother, Mycroft, for their grandmother's engagement ring.
Miss Sawyer is my fiancee. After the death of my beloved wife, Mary, I moved back into Baker Street with our infant daughter, Rosemond. Mrs. Hudson was a God-send those first few weeks. She established Rosie on a schedule and helped me find a suitable live-in nanny. Miss Jones, Rosie's nanny, was an amazing caretaker for my daughter. She understood my unpredictable schedule due to my association with Holmes and seemed more than happy to mind Rosie for additional hours when the situation demanded it. To keep her in my service I compensated her more than fairly at £2 per week plus room and board and gave her additional time off when I could.
"Are there any suspects?" I asked.
"The younger daughter, Miss Lizzie Borden, has been arrested. There have been others that have come and gone; Mr. Borden's brother-in-law, the maid, the elder Miss Borden, and an angry Portuguese man."
I must admit that the idea of a woman killing her parents in such a violent manner appalled me. I am no stranger to violence; my service in the army and being Sherlock Holmes' associate frequently reminded me that humankind is the most dangerous animal on the planet. Animals kill for food, mates or territory. Humans often kill for revenge or pleasure. In all my years of working with Holmes, I saw that it was more common for women to kill with poison, not violence and certainly not with a hatchet. My thoughts were broken by Holmes speaking. "Watson, we have quite the case here. Miss Emma Borden has hired us to prove her sister's innocence. I am beginning to think that this was a joint venture between multiple individuals, not a lone act. I am going to retire to my room and suggest you do the same. We will meet back here at, let's say, eight o'clock. You can have some breakfast and we will tour the Borden home." I nodded in agreement.
"Good night, Holmes."
"Good night, Watson."
Chapter 2
Holmes woke early to take in the neighbourhood and get a foothold on how the events may have unfolded. He arrived for breakfast just as I ordered mine.
"A cup of coffee and toasted sweet bread." He ordered.
He must have seen the confused look on my face when he ordered sweet bread. "It's normally a desert but I have been told that it is delicious toasted with fresh butter, Watson. It's one of the foods brought over by immigrants. In this case, the Portuguese from the Azores, off the coast of Portugal."
While waiting for our meals we engaged in casual conversation. My friend was enthusiastic when describing what he saw. "This city is alive, Watson. The cotton mills are everywhere, some on the Quequechan (quick-a-shan) River, even more scattered through the city. I counted 89 but I know there are more. I heard French, Portuguese, and some Mandarin. The architecture is varied and a lot of it is built of granite quarried in this very city." My friend continued talking about the American Industrial Revolution that began in Pawtucket, Rhode Island, approximately 20 miles northwest of here while we broke our overnight fast.
The weather was pleasant and the walk was short to the Borden home. The house was a small two storey house with a low fence around the property. The neighbourhood appeared to be comfortable but not exceptionally wealthy. This was not the most affluent neighbourhood but the residents here were not exactly counting their pennies.
Looking around the area I could see almost every home in the neighbourhood.
Holmes and I were met at the door by Miss Emma Borden. She appeared tired, understandably so, as she recently experienced events that would have broken the strongest of women.
"Good Morning, Gentlemen. You are Mr. Holmes and Dr. Watson, I presume?"
"Good Morning, Madam. I am Sherlock Holmes and this is Dr. John Watson."
"Please, do come in. Maggie, please get tea for our guests." The maid nodded her head and left the room. "I am sorry, I didn't ask your preference. Would you prefer coffee?" She led us to the sitting room and indicated that we should sit down.
Holmes answered for us, "Tea is most welcome. Please. Tell me what happened on August 4. Leave out no detail no matter how small you may think it is."
Before Miss Borden spoke, Maggie brought in our tea. Once she left the room, Miss Borden began her recollections of August 4, 1892. While Miss Borden spoke, I read the post mortem reports that she had just handed me.
"I was in Fairhaven, visiting the Brownell family." For the next hour she told us of her perspective. How she was visiting friends in Fairhaven, less than 20 miles away, how she got a telegram telling her of the terrible news, returning home as soon as she could that afternoon to find strangers searching her home and her parents dead. She told her story in earnest, truly believing her younger sister innocent of the horrific crimes she was accused of.
"Mr. Holmes, I know Lizzie couldn't have killed Father and our step-mother, she was in the barn looking for lead and eating pears. Please help prove her innocence."
"Miss Borden, I will go where the facts lead. I would like to see the house, please."
The house was a two story, rectangular house that seemed oddly laid out. The ground and first floors (Miss Borden called them the first and second floors, respectively) had, essentially, the same layout. There seemed to be a central room with the other rooms being off the central room. Once it was explained that the house was once two smaller flats that had been converted to a single family residence the layout seemed much more logical. The house lacked modern conveniences such as gas lighting and a telephone.
In the basement was the family privy, storage rooms and the laundry. The ground floor was home to the kitchen, dining room, and living areas. The first floor had the bedrooms, including a guest room. The attic was where Bridget Sullivan slept. The Bordens called her Maggie. I suppose this told us a lot about the Bordens as they never bothered to learn their domestic help's actual name. Miss Borden actually seemed to be embarrassed by the lack of modernity in their home. "My father didn't see the point of spending money to modernise when the old ways still worked."
Emma Borden showed us the barn, it was located in the rear of the garden. The barn was not well lit and had few windows. It didn't seem to be a hospitable place to be eating pears, especially on a hot August morning.
Mr. Borden was found around eleven o'clock in the morning. He had gotten home from checking on his business interests and decided to take a short rest on the sofa in the ground floor sitting room. It was there that he died, suffering 10 or 11 blows.
Mrs. Borden was found shortly after in the upstairs guest room. She had been attacked from behind, suffering 19 blows.
The rest of the details of the brutality the killer committed cannot be recounted here in deference to the sensibilities of our dear readers. When reading them one word came to mind, rage. Someone was in a blind rage when they killed Mr. and Mrs. Borden.
The medical examiner, Dr. W. A. Dolan, had performed the formal autopsies one week after their murders in the crypt ar the Oak Grove Cemetary, where the couple was interred. There were initial autopsies performed in their home the day of the slayings. I was told that the findings were the same and the reports were not as detailed as the official autopsy reports. The initial autopsies did establish that Mrs. Borden died first, about one and a half-hours before her husband.
"Watson, what do you make of this? The post-mortem report describes Mrs. Borden as 'fleshy'. I understand that to mean that she was of considerable size. You were with me at the house. Could a woman fall and not be heard throughout that small house?"
"I don't think so, Holmes. The house seems to be well built but I think that it would have been impossible not to hear someone fall to the floor."
"My thoughts as well, Watson. We need to talk to Miss Lizzie Borden herself."
Chapter 3
The train from Fall River to Taunton was a pleasant one. My companion was introverted in thought and I watched the Massachusetts countryside pass by. In less than one hour we arrived at the Taunton Depot. At the depot we hired a carriage for the three mile drive to the jail.
The Taunton Jail was an imposing brick structure not far from the local asylum. Miss Borden was housed there awaiting trial because there were no facilities in Fall River for the long term incarceration of women prisoners. We were greeted by the Matron who escorted us to her own rooms where Miss Borden was waiting.
"Miss Lizzie Borden, I presume?" The poised woman nodded. "I am Sherlock Holmes and this is my friend and chronicler, Dr. John Watson."
"My sister told me that she was contacting you." Miss Borden said. "I am innocent, Mr. Holmes."
Holmes seemed unmoved, as I expected. "We will see what all the evidence says before I make that judgement, Miss Borden. Can you recall for me the events of August 4? No detail is too small." He then closed his eyes to take in every word. As he prepared himself, I took out my notebook.
"Very well. I rose and dressed at about 9. I do not enjoy a large breakfast so I ate some cookies and drank coffee a short time after the others had eaten."
"Who are 'the others', Miss Borden?" Sherlock interjected.
"They were Father, Mrs. Borden, and Uncle John Morse. Mrs. Borden went upstairs to freshen up the guest room. I ironed some handkerchiefs. I greeted my father when he came home from his errands about 10:30 then I went to the barn to look for some lead irons so I could go fishing a few days later when we visited the Swansea farm. While I was there I ate some pears that I picked up in the orchard in the back of the house. I never did find the irons I wanted."
"What happened, then, Miss Borden? When did you find your mother?"
"She was my step-mother, Mr. Holmes, not my mother. I didn't find her. When I went back inside from being in the barn I saw my father laying on the sofa. He had been horribly injured. I called out to Maggie and she ran to get Dr. Bowen. Mrs. Borden was found in the guest room by family friend Alice Russell and Maggie a short time after my father was killed. Mrs. Borden told me that she had gotten a note to go and see a sick friend and went out. I'm sure I did hear her come in and go upstairs and thought no more of it."
Miss Borden dabbed her eyes as if tears were about to fall.
"Why do you refer to your step-mother as Mrs. Borden?"
"That is what she was, my step-mother. My mother died when I was a very young child. My father married her when I was five years old. I would have been raised better by a nanny."
"But surely, Miss Borden, there were some familial feelings." I added.
"There certainly were not, Dr. Watson. Mrs. Borden was a mean, old woman and not fit for me to call her 'Mother'. My father should never have spent a single penny on her or her family."
"Do you have any ideas as to who would have murdered your parents?" Holmes said.
"Probably someone who owed Father money. He was not always kind to his debtors."
"Did you kill your parents, Miss Borden?" I was shocked at this question that Holmes uttered.
Miss Borden rose to her feet, her apparent fury at being asked this question barely concealed. "You can show yourselves out. Good day, Gentlemen." The scorn that emphasised the term "gentlemen" was quite evident.
The short train journey back to Fall River was spent in silence. The remainder of the day was spent touring the city while my friend remained in his brain attic throughout the afternoon.
In the morning we checked out of the hotel and prepared to leave. There was a steamship leaving for New York at 10:00 and Holmes wanted to be on it.
The clerk at the Mohican Hotel stated that our bill would be covered so we placed our bags in the cab and made our way to the Borden home.
Miss Sullivan answered the door and we were welcomed into the sitting room.
"Maggie, please get some tea…"
"No, thank you, Miss Sullivan. We will not be staying." Holmes started. Miss Sullivan curtseyed and left us alone.
"How much did it cost to hire your parent's killer, Miss Borden?"
"How dare you make that assumption, Mr. Holmes!" She declared.
"It is the only explanation that fits all the facts. You being away gave you plausible deniability that you knew nothing. Your sister not having blood on her clothing allows her to deny it. Miss Sullivan resting keeps her from being suspected. Money is a recurrent theme, Miss Borden. Therefore, I have deduced that you paid someone to kill your parents. The motive being your father's fortune."
"So I cannot prove that Miss Lizzie is innocent as she, and you, are definitely not. I will be writing to Detective Hilliard and District Attorney Knowlton with my findings. Good day, Madam."
We showed ourselves out and made our way to the docks to begin the first leg of our journey home. As we took the short ride in the cab, Holmes wrote notes to be delivered to Hillard and Knowlton. "I do hope they investigate this angle, Watson," my companion said. "Murder for hire is certainly not new but not common." He paid a few coins above the fare when we reached the dock for the driver and to post the notes.
At the correct time we boarded the Pricilla and began our journey home.
Epilogue, June 1893
I arrived at Baker Street, newspaper in hand, to find Holmes and his bride of three months enjoying their breakfast. Molly greeted me with a kiss on my cheek and offered me a plate. I politely declined having eaten a delicious breakfast prepared by my bride Sarah earlier in the morning.
"All that work for nothing, Holmes, the jury acquitted her." I said as I tossed the newspaper on the table in front of Holmes.
"I suspected that would be the ultimate outcome, Watson. Women are not thought to kill with violence of that level or contract for that level of violence. Poison and, increasingly, gunshot are cleaner ways to reach their goal. Hatchets are messy. Is there any mention of the makeup of the jury?"
"Twelve men all within an age, some with daughters Miss Borden's age. They possibly could not imagine their own daughters committing this heinous crime so, therefore, Borden couldn't have done it."
"There are many poisons that we can't detect yet," Molly joined in. "Prussic acid is not one of them. I can certainly understand a hatchet in a moment or two of hysteria but two murders and just as heinous to hire someone to kill for you? I think that Miss Borden would be facing the noose if she had used poison and not a hired killer. Excuse me."
Molly ran out of the room and a few seconds later I heard retching coming from the water closet. "Is your wife all right, Holmes?"
"I believe so. She has had occasional bouts of nausea for the past week but we both believe she is healthy." He poured her a cup of tea and lightly sweetened it with honey from his father's hives in the country. "It should relieve itself soon, I should think." He then opened the kitchen cabinet and placed some soda crackers on a plate.
At the same time Molly entered the room and I said, "When do you expect your confinement?"
She smiled, thanked her husband for the tea and crackers and said, "Sometime in January, I think."
