It ends in more of a quiet hum than a roar, which given his whole life, is far from what he expected it to be.
They've already hung up their coats years ago, moved their chairs, shut down the blog and given notice that they will not be coming back, as best to their knowledge. Many people understood, yet they were also pensive, wondering if London could fall without them to hold it together. It didn't, somehow. Neither did Sussex either, when they sensitively moved into it. Of course, there were rumours, rumours had followed him for decades. Tabloids splashing stories about him, about his partner, about their daughter. They'd gotten used to it and they'd persevered.
They'd also brought bees, surprisingly and without much of a fight from the other, the honey they created for the abundance of flowers and other plants from the garden of his mother and father's estate as well as the ones left to them by Mycroft before his passing making large sums of money at the farmer's market, usually gone before the end of the day.
It was a content existence, far from the experiences they were used to, but Rosie visited and loved and dreamed and married and had her own children. They spoke about how the city they'd left for calmer waters was doing and in kind, they taught them the ways of the world as best they knew them, stories and keepsakes coming out of the woodwork and boxes tenfold.
Just like the grandchildren, sheep, also, became part of the plan. So did shearing and spinning and knitting and sewing, creations like baby jackets and beanies and booties and coveralls originally made for them and not used or not needed due to having a quantity too many at the time gone in a flash, seen the next time again on a tottering local child or infant in a pram as they wandered the streets on their evening walks.
Of course, John did use a cane again at the time, but it seemed his hands were as sturdy as they were when he was young, if both the usage of the knitting needles every day as well as the grip on his hand is anything to go by.
It's him losing that grip in the middle of the night only to wake the next morning without it that he knows he's finally gone. He just hopes he's sleeping, as for so long, he's been left to the ways of the world without guidance. It was supposed to be him first, not the other way around. He doesn't know how to function alone anymore.
He doesn't learn how to quickly either when they finally take him away from their home.
The chair is the first thing that goes. He can't stand to look at it, like it's mocking him with his emptiness from across the room. He sends it to Rosie, for even though he's a poor excuse for a replacement parent, she loves him and loved her father as well. She would use it.
The knitting goes next, donated of course. Everything that's already completed is sold with the honey at the next market and what's not is taken with the wool to others who wish to finish what John originally started. It won't be perfect like his work, but it will do.
The wool that's already spun sells as well, along with the sheep to a local farm as while John could keep up, he can't from old injuries and too many memories, so it makes it easier to take care of what's already there, being mostly bees and a few stray chickens.
The jumpers are given to Rosie's husband as a rather unscrupulous birthday present in the post, except for the cream-coloured one, the shade reminiscent of oatmeal and still as bland as the day they'd met. It hangs next to his jacket and his own jacket in the wardrobe.
His day is remotely the same as it has been since they got here, but it's not like it was.
There's no one greeting him in the morning with tea and biscuits, nor sitting on the bench on the porch as he collects the honeycomb and its prize from the hives. There's no one helping him make things like candles and beeswax and assisting in jarring the day's honey and there's no one sitting next to him on the sofa having dinner or when he's falling asleep.
It's like there is a void in the places where he heard John's voice the most. The little things he'd never noticed that John complimented before he wasn't there to do that anymore.
If it was the old him, the before John him, it would have sent him into a spiral that would most likely have ended in an alleyway with a needle in his arm. He's not that young anymore, but he's also grown up more than he would have if John hadn't suddenly been thrust into his life.
After John him instead just sighs to himself in bed before he turns off the lights, the book of the current month laying half open with his glasses on his side table and John's cherished pet bulldog on the mat that somehow doesn't hate him.
In the synapsis of his mind, the far reaches beyond his mind palace that John's vaguely still a part of when he wants to be, he can see them together again. In several memories that fly through like the wing so f the bees he still looks after, but in one in particular.
They're standing on top of the roof of 221B with sweet Rosie between them, still a little girl and not a grown woman getting older and John, still alive and while not youthful (as your 40's are never youthful), content as can be as fireworks blasted all over the sky in the colours of the Union Jack as revellers cheered, both of them laughing quietly as Rosie wanted to stay awake to see them, but had fallen asleep just minutes before.
It's also the first time that Sherlock admitted to John that he loved him, so that makes sense.
It's a memory that inspires him and keeps him going, for when he looks up from the ground and into the evening skies after dinner, he knows John is up there, watching over him. Just like the fireworks watched over them as they finally became a family of sorts that neither Sherlock or John really ever had or thought they would have.
It leaves a warm feeling inside him that strengthens his bones and pools inside his chest at length, carrying him forward through the next day and then the next and then the next.
"Soldier on, Sher." He could almost hear the ghost of John say. "Just do this next day for me."
