"Left of Center", Suzanne Vega
...
Molly flipped idly through a magazine before closing it with a sigh and setting it aside. Resting her chin in her hand, she stared absently out of the window.
She wasn't sure how long she stayed staring out of the window, but she gradually became aware of the cold seeping into her extremities and that it was starting to get dark outside.
Suppressing a sigh, she stood up to close the curtains and feed Toby, before drifting back to the chair once more.
Wrapping a blanket securely around her small frame, she sat in melancholy silence as the darkness descended. She contemplated getting something for dinner or even turning on the lights, but that all seemed like too much effort so she stayed where she was.
Despite lockdown being over for some time now, she still found herself with very little desire to do anything or to go anywhere. Even leaving the flat for work seemed like an almost unbearable chore.
Even on those days when Sherlock showed up for an experiment.
Or, perhaps, especially on those days as it took considerable effort to seem like her usual self.
But maybe that was part of the problem: she was either a very good actress or no one cared enough to notice the change. Even Sherlock with all of his celebrated genius and powers of observation had failed to comment on it.
Not even once.
He'd just come in to do his experiments and then left.
She was broken from her increasingly despondent train of thought by a knock on the door. Sighing heavily, she stood up to answer it, careful to keep the blanket wrapped around her shoulders.
She squinted at the sudden light from the stairwell, before blinking in surprise to find Sherlock on her doorstep.
Sherlock's eyes narrowed slightly as he took in her appearance, "Did I wake you?"
Molly shook her head, "No, I was just…no," she trailed off lamely, before wordlessly moving aside to allow him to enter and turning on the lights.
Sherlock took a moment to look around the room before turning to face her, he frowned inwardly as his suspicions were confirmed.
Molly looked…diminished.
She hadn't been the same since things had returned to some semblance of normal after the lockdown. She smiled less and rarely smiled at him at all.
Not to mention that she hadn't even noticed that he'd taken to cleaning up after himself when he came to conduct experiments or that he'd brought her coffee when he did so. Or the hundreds of other small gestures he'd done in an attempt to cheer her up.
Something was wrong with his pathologist and he was determined to fix it. He rocked back on his heels slightly, even though he had absolutely no idea how to begin.
"Did you need something?" Molly asked after a long moment, not quite meeting his eye.
"No," Sherlock replied, trying to keep his tone from being too brusque, "I came to see…how you were."
Molly finally met his gaze, "What?"
"You haven't been yourself lately," Sherlock explained, his voice sounding a little gruff as he struggled not sound as concerned as he felt. "So, I've come to see if there's anything I can do to…help," he added, ignoring the voice in his head screaming at him for being so sentimental.
Molly's eyes welled with tears, "I didn't think you'd noticed," she whispered.
"Of course I noticed," Sherlock retorted, lowering his voice in turn. He stepped back a little in alarm as his words seemed to break something inside of Molly and she started to cry.
For once in his life, Sherlock responded on pure instinct as he moved forwards to pull her into his arms as her tears became interspersed with small gasps of pain. He tightened his hold on her as she collapsed against him, still sobbing her heart out.
Eventually her tears subsided enough for her to confess the whole truth into the front of his shirt: how alone she'd felt during lockdown, how alone she still felt and how this all – somehow – confirmed what she'd always known, that she was completely isolated, unloved and doomed to be alone.
"Well that's just ridiculous," he scoffed after her whispered confession.
He immediately regretted his candid response as she tried to pull away, but he refused to break his hold on her. "Molly, you're the most loveable and loving person I know," he told her sincerely, as she hung her head. "And you're not alone, you have me," he added firmly, dipping his head slightly to catch her eye, "and John and the others," he amended hastily as she blinked at him in surprise. "So that's enough of this nonsense," he continued, trying to keep his tone firm and pretending not to notice that he still had his arms around her.
She gave him a small, watery smile, "Thank you," she said softly as she stepped out of his embrace.
He dipped his head briefly in acknowledgement, before casting another look around her flat, "Have you eaten?" he asked finally, breaking the almost awkward silence.
She shook her head, "Not yet."
Sherlock refrained from commenting on what he suspected was a lie, he doubted very much that she'd had any intention of eating that evening.
"Marylebone Road has reopened, if you'd care to join me?" he asked instead and was rewarded with the first genuine smile he'd seen from her in a long time.
"That sounds lovely, I'll just get my jacket," she continued, retreating towards her bedroom.
Sherlock supressed a start as Toby suddenly jumped up onto the back of the couch. The pair regarded each other in silence for a long moment.
"Don't worry," Sherlock said finally, "I'll take care of her. I promise," he added, more to himself than to Toby as Molly came back into view.
