Disclaimer: I sadly do not own Sherlock or any recognisable characters and plots from the BBC of ?
I am still new to writing fabrication-my first two didn't go very well!- so constructive criticism is welcome, but please don't be too harsh!
Also, please don't read of you dislike Mpreg- there won't be explicit slash here. Mpreg isn't such a big theme in this, but it is a the reason for a lot of the events... If that makes any sense
Mycroft knew that Sherlock would always be there, and maybe that's why Sherlock had to leave. Ever since their secret relationship had started, Sherlock, who was as cynical as ever towards others, and the practice of marriage, had surprised him. Every day, no matter if he was in the middle of a case-unless it was a ten of course - he would come back to Mycroft's house, and make them both dinner. Despite Sherlock never having cooked for John, or indeed anyone, cooking was like chemistry, and he excelled at it, as he did with everything else. He'd make breakfast for Mycroft each morning- he didn't have to get up any where near as early as Mycroft did for HIS work, but he enjoyed spending time with his lover. He lovingly dressed Mycroft in his 'armour' every morning, just to make his lover feel secure in his body, and loved completely.
He did all of this, and didn't do more than flinch when Mycroft skipped the warm dinner that Sherlock had so carefully prepared. Not did he do any more than sigh in soft disappointment when Mycroft left for work without so much as a glance in his direction. Neither did he show his sadness when Mycroft forgot one(or rather all) of their planned dates or night outs, just to spend a bit more time at his office. And neither did he cry in front of Mycroft when his big brother made callous, cold, unthinking remarks to him, without noticing the hurt expression that briefly flashed across his face.
Mycroft loved him, he was sure. Even if he hadn't said or shown it since the first few weeks after they had confessed their live to each other. Mycroft loved him, even if he didn't have time to express it anymore. Even if he had no time for Sherlock anymore. Mycroft was his Mycie, and he was Mycroft's Lockie.
But it didn't feel like that anymore. It hadn't felt like that for a long time, and no matter how hard Sherlock tried to believe it, he couldn't suppress the miniscule worry that their live was falling apart. But, as he always did, he pushed it into the deepest, darkest corner of his Mind Palace.
Weeks passed like this, and then, finally, it was Christmas, the one holiday of the year that Sherlock loved celebrating, because it was the one special to him and Mycie. Apart from those long, painful years in which they were estranged, Christmas had always been a time of love, though this year it would be love of a different nature, and stronger than ever.
This year, Sherlock had planned something extra special. He spent weeks composing a violin piece, one that practically radiated love; he researched the best recipes for all of Mycroft's favourite, very traditional, very English dishes; he bought new suits for the both of them; and the masterpiece: he bought them matching rings* and chains, so that he could propose. Sherlock wasn't stupid, he knew that him and Mycroft could never get legally married, but he didn't care. He wanted to organise a vows ceremony, just the two of them , Lestrade(no matter how much he tried to fool Sherlock into thinking his name was Greg) and their parents.
Sherlock had been wanting to do this for a long time, but what brought it on, was some exciting yet absolutely terrifying need that he had received recently... He was pregnant. He was by no means doing the ceremony just because of the pregnancy, but it seemed fitting to propose and tell Mycroft at the same time.
Mycroft arrived home from - despite how many times Sherlock had pleased with him to take the day off- and gasped in surprise at the site waiting for him. A path of rose petals lead to their dining room, which was adorned with elegant, red poinsettias(in the spirit of Christmas). Set upon the table was as delicious roast dinner, with every tiny detail he could ever want, and behind that stood Sherlock, in his new suit, holding a perfect Christmas pudding.
"Sherlock, what on earth is all this? How did you have time to make all of this, Christmas is one of the busiest times of the year for crime! This is wonderful, Sherlock, really!" said Mycroft, shocked. They ate their meal, laughing and chatting(and snarking) as though the tension of the last few months had almost never existed.
And then it all went downhill...
