 I am dedicating this story to the memory of HRM, Queen Elizabeth II, 21st of April,1926 - 8th of September 2022.
I could not let such an important event in history be ignored in my Sherlolly universe. Therefore, I hope my small group of readers will enjoy an up-to-date glimpse into the lives of the characters that I have been writing about since 2017.
I, for one, was very sad to learn of the queen's passing. I believe she was a symbol of grace and dignity that seems lacking in too many people these days in political office. May we all learn from her example to approach difficulties with that same grace and dignity.
King Charles III has very big shoes to fill.
Molly swallowed hard, and the tears began to fall. She'd had a feeling this news would soon be forthcoming after earlier news reports in the day that the family had been called to Balmoral, where the queen was under medical supervision.
"It's hard to believe she's really gone." Molly looked down at her suckling son, Noah, stroking his downy dark head of wispy curls, as Sherlock, sitting next to her with their other twin son, Scott, spoke.
His voice also held a note of sadness. "The writing was on the wall, sweetheart. Her health has been declining for months."
"But she looked so good just two days ago, when she welcomed the new prime minister," Molly pointed out, raising her eyes to meet Sherlock's sympathetic gaze. She sighed. "But I suppose when we heard about the family being called to Balmoral, that wasn't a good sign. I just hope they arrived in time to see her before she passed away."
"Even if they did, she was probably not aware of it, love," said Sherlock gently.
"I know, but I guess being there at the end at least would give the family a sense of peace. I remember my friend, Violetta, telling me that even though she was not personally with her father in his last moments, she was there via FaceTime thanks to her sister, so she had peace about it because of that." Death was inevitable, but that didn't make it any easier to deal with, and Molly was suddenly reminded of the loss of her own father many years earlier. He had been taken too soon, she felt, but she knew that only God knew how long each person was destined to live on the earth. At least she knew her father was in heaven and she would see him again one day. Those without faith didn't have that kind of hope of reuniting with loved ones.
She brushed away more tears as Sherlock responded. "I would have to agree that an expected death provides more closure than one which comes out of the blue."
Molly's attention was diverted by the annoyed-sounding little voice of her four-year-old.
"No, Chwisty, the puzzle piece goes over 
," said Victoria to her two-and-a-half year old sister. She turned her head towards Molly, "Mummy, Chwisty is not being care-" her voice broke off and she asked, "What's wong, Mummy?"
Molly sniffed and contemplated what to say, as Sherlock said, "Victoria, can you get your mummy a tissue please?"
Victoria frowned but did as she was told, taking a tissue from the box and offering it to Molly. She then stared intently at her mother, obviously waiting for a response.
Molly wiped her eyes and kept the tissue in her hand as she said, "Mummy is just a little sad because the queen just died and has gone to heaven."
"To be with Jesus," said Victoria without hesitation.
Molly smiled through her tears at her daughter. "Yes, to be with Jesus." Oh, how she prayed that Victoria would come to understand exactly what that phrase meant when she was a little older.
Martha called half an hour later to ask if they had heard the news. And, as in the previous year, she asked if they might watch the funeral together, when the time came.
"Besides, I haven't seen your children for almost a month," she added.
Molly gave a short laugh. "That's only because you had Covid."
Martha's tone was dry as she responded. "Like practically every other person in England at this point. But my word, I'm only just now starting to get my energy back. Sherlock was a godsend in doing my shopping for me. How are your boys doing, and didn't Victoria just start reception a few days ago?"
Molly blinked a little at the long monologue as she looked over at the boys, who were now both peacefully sleeping in their respective bouncers. Victoria was observing Sherlock's gentle swaying back-and-forth hand movements on Noah's bouncer, and she was doing the sane with Scott's. Christina was in the playpen, contentedly stacking blocks.
"The boys are growing like weeds. They won't fit into the bouncers much longer. Oh, and Victoria had a bit of separation anxiety for the first couple of days, but she seems to be enjoying herself now. She did tell me in a horrified tone of voice that some of the other children didn't even know the letters of the alphabet, and that Christina was smarter than those children."
Martha chuckled on the other end of the line. "Well, it's hardly surprising with such clever parents, that your girls are so advanced compared to other children their own age." She paused, then repeated her earlier request that Molly had forgotten to answer. "So, may I come over to view the funeral with you and see the children?"
"Of course you can," Molly assured her. She looked at Sherlock as she added, "I'm sure Sherlock can find something for the girls to do while we watch the funeral."
Sherlock nodded his assent, acknowledging her words.
Later that night, when the girls were tucked into bed, and the twins were in their respective Moses baskets, which they would also soon be too big for, Molly cuddled into Sherlock's embrace and sighed.
"Still sad about the queen, love?"
"I can't help it. It's so strange. She was on the throne for seventy years. So many people have never known a time when she wasn't the queen. We've sung 'God Save the Queen' all my life. It will be odd to sing 'God Save the King'."
She felt Sherlock's lips brush her forehead. "I agree. It will be interesting to see what Prince, I mean 
 Charles, will do as the new monarch. I did notice a significant amount of anti-royal sentiment earlier when I was online."
Molly's brow puckered. "I don't think anyone should use someone's death as an excuse to make complaints. Whether people like the Royal family or not, they are still people. There are family members who are grieving, and everyone should respect that."
"I completely agree, but there will always be people who will use any excuse to spew venom to further a political agenda."
"More people should adopt Martha's philosophy of 'live and let live'," stated Molly with a huff. She hated the way some people could not accept that others held a different opinion than they did.
Sherlock stroked his fingers lightly down her arm. "I know a way to cheer you up a little."
Molly peeked up at him through her eyelashes. "Oh really?"
"Yes, let us take advantage of this time before one of the boys wakes up."
Molly reached to place her arms around his neck to draw his lips to hers. "Works for me."
Over the next two days, as the country mourned the loss of its long-reigning monarch, and condolences poured in from nations all over the world, Molly kept the television tuned to what was happening. Fortunately, Victoria was at school during the day for several hours, and it was only when Sherlock brought her home, that she complained about not being able to watch the television.
Molly compromised by allowing Victoria to use her iPad to watch 
, yet again, and other favourite programmes with the Disney Plus app.
This time was one that would be remembered in history, and Molly didn't want to miss any of it. Sherlock was not quite as interested as Molly in these current events, so he took a more active role in keeping the girls busy with activities as Molly kept a watchful eye on the various television broadcasts and updates. It was fortunate he had recently finished an investigation and was between cases. At least the twins had no complaints about her watching the television as she fed them. As long as they were fed and had clean nappies, they were surprisingly easy to manage, thankfully.
Molly was fascinated to see Charles officially proclaimed King Charles the Third, and to watch the privy council, which included his son, William, and his wife, Camilla, sign their names on the document.
On Saturday, the official announcement came that the funeral would take place on Monday, the 19th of September. The day would also officially be a bank holiday, which meant schools would also be closed.
At church on Sunday, most of the before and after church conversation focussed on the royal family and the sorrow people felt over the queen's passing.
Sherlock and John talked after church as they usually did, and Molly felt sure they were not discussing anything to do with the royal family. Scott was balanced casually against Sherlock's hip while Molly had charge of Noah. Each week they alternated on who looked after which twin during the church service, unless one of the boys decided he was hungry in the middle of the service.
Molly, holding Noah, walked with Kayla to the nursery in the rear of the church to collect their children.
"Are you going to watch the funeral next week?" asked Molly.
"Oh, of course. I told John that it's his job to make sure I can watch in peace," responded Kayla with a grin. "You?"
"Oh yes, I'll certainly be watching. Martha is going to come over like she did last year when we watched Prince Philip's funeral."
"Oh, how is she doing? John told me she recently had Covid."
"She's almost recovered, although she did tell me yesterday that she hasn't fully regained her sense of taste."
Kayla wrinkled her nose in sympathy. "I know a few people who've had that issue with the taste buds, with the loss of taste ranging from days to months. Seems to be an unusual trademark of Covid."
"Yeah, I'm just glad that most cases now seem to be like a flu or bad cold, rather than the initial, more deadly strain." Molly adjusted Noah's position at her own hip as they reached the nursery door, and Kayla knocked to make sure the nursery volunteer knew they were about to enter.
A few minutes later, the women and brood of children returned to their husbands' sides.
Together, they walked out of the church building and returned to their respective cars.
"Were you and John talking about work?" asked Molly, as Sherlock navigated the traffic and headed towards their home in Harringay.
"Actually we were just talking about our last case and agreeing not to seek out another until after the royal funeral." He shot a quick glance at Molly before returning his gaze to the road. "John said Kayla has also been preoccupied in watching all the television coverage surrounding the queen's death and the ascension of Charles to the throne."
"It's not every day we see a new monarch," said Molly, feeling a little defensive.
"Calm down, love. Didn't I just say John and I agreed to wait until we do another case? We know you women are a little more interested in this kind of thing, and it is our duty to facilitate things for our wives. Next Monday, John suggested we men take the kids to Finsbury Park, well, the older four, seeing it's a day off school. That way you can invite Kayla over to watch the funeral too. I'd take the boys along as well, but I think it might be a little difficult for us to manage six children."
Molly smiled. "That's a wonderful idea, honey. Thank you. The twins are no trouble anyway, and Martha will be there too in case I am feeding one and the other needs attention."
"Well, I told John I'd have you call Kayla later this afternoon. It will be good for Victoria and Rosie to spend time together, and Adam and Christina too."
Victoria piped up from her seat in the rear. That child missed nothing, Molly thought in amusement. "Wosie and Adam are coming? And Uncle John and Auntie Kayla?"
Molly turned in her seat to address her oldest. "Not this week, but next week on Monday, probably. And you can go to the park with Daddy and Uncle John. And you can tell Rosie all about how you are at school too now."
"Yay!" The note of enthusiasm in Victoria's voice made Molly smile again.
"And tell you what, princess," Sherlock said, raising his voice because he could not turn his head, "We will go and get McDonalds as a treat afterwards and bring it home to eat."
The word 
 got Christina's attention. Christina loved food, fast food especially. Fortunately, she was full of energy and ran, rather than walked, most of the time. Otherwise the child would surely be a chubby little cherub. She ate as much as Victoria and was always saying she was hungry. "McDonells," she sang, bouncing in her seat. "Hungwy."
"Not today, lovey." The sulky look on Christina's face was priceless as Molly gazed fondly at her second-born.
Christina pouted all the way home. Molly had the distinct feeling that of her four children, Christina would be the one to test her patience most as she grew older. But perhaps she was wrong. Only time would tell.
In the afternoon, Molly and Kayla spoke together and arranged for the Watson family to arrive at 10:30 AM the following Monday. That would be early enough for the men to get the children ready to leave for their outing.
After their conversation, Molly called Martha to arrange for her to come a little earlier, so that she would be able to see the children before the men left with the older four.
With arrangements successfully made, Molly prepared for a week that would undoubtedly contain a lot of sadness as people continued to mourn the loss of their beloved queen.
 Where were you when you heard the news of the queen's passing? How did you find out? For me, it was my youngest daughter texting me with the news to say she was sad to hear that the queen had died. One of her classmates had just heard the news and shared it. I Googled it and saw that the announcement had only been made shortly before, so whoever that student was, they were certainly well informed!
I hope the queen passed into her eternal rest as peacefully as my own father did. Yes, what I wrote about Violetta (breaking the fourth wall again, briefly) was my own experience when my father passed away in December, 2016.
I hope you enjoyed a little glimpse into the current life of my beloved characters. I plan to write another chapter that will include the funeral which I want to watch, so standby for another installment sometime after that happens.
I would love to hear from readers so I know I have a few still out there, despite my increasingly rare appearances in publishing recently.
