John finds himself with a fever on a bad day... Will Sherlock realize before it's too late?
"Sherlock," John repeats for what must have been the sixth time. The previous case they had been on only got Sherlock through 48 hours before he accused the wife's brother-in-law of murdering her husband. They had an affair and the brother-in-law was not happy when she stopped meeting with him. He was caught just before he murdered her as well. Now Sherlock sat in the kitchen that they never actually ate in, watching his experiment with a precision privy to an eagle stalking its next meal. "I'll be off then, we're out of milk again." Sherlock gave no response as if a petri dish was more important than the human making sure the fridge was always stocked. John grabbed his coat, not sure if he felt cold because of the temperature or the person he shared a flat with.
John walked past the dairy aisle snuggling against the warm fabric of his coat, he half expected a snowflake or two to fall from the cloudy sky outside.
"
John thought, he knew he should have brought a list. His mind felt as if it were stuffed with cotton balls. After mindlessly walking around the store for longer than it should have taken, he decided that the flat needed more tea. John stumbled to the checkout line, paid for his tea, and began the trek back to his lonesome home. The pavement seemed to wobble with every step he took as the grocery bag he was holding felt ten times heavier than tea and biscuits should. John was too busy focusing on the simple task of walking to hear the footsteps following him, block after block, around every corner.
He didn't notice the stranger behind him until he was shoved into the nearest alleyway and being threatened with a knife. At home, his phone buzzes with a message from Sherlock, "
"How's Sherlock gonna feel when his dog comes home with holes in 'em."
The stranger said in a gruff voice, talking more to himself than john. God, john hated when people referred to him as Sherlock's "pet", never made any sense to him why everyone always came to that conclusion. Sherlock had been nicer to actual dogs. But before John could figure out the absurd conclusion most people seem to come to about the two of them, he felt a sharp pain in his right thigh. Then another in his left followed by a third skimming his lower abdomen.
"Gah!" John moaned in pain, falling on the concrete below twisting with his vision.
"Make sure Sherlock gets my message," The rather tall man tells John. "Don't bother coming after me." Even through the sheen of sweat on John's forehead and the blood dripping from multiple parts of his body, his medical brain persevered. He clumsily took off his jacket and tied it around his right leg which held the deeper stab wound. Getting up, he walked out of the alleyway. He felt the stares from bystanders, he almost felt disappointed in the human race for ignoring someone so clearly in pain.
"Help," John whispered so quietly he would have thought nobody heard him if it weren't for the child tugging on her mom's sleeve.
"Mommy, that man said he needs help…" The pig-tailed girl said to her mother.
"Shh, it's okay honey just ignore him." The mother told her child.
It made John's heart ache to know that another little girl would grow up to be just like her mother, too scared to help someone in need, too ignorant for her own good. As John began the aching crawl back to their flat his mind flashed through memories like a photo album. All through his life, everything he went through was faced by himself, every achievement celebrated alone, every defeat grieved by a party of one.
When he decided to join the army his family could care less, even when he came back home his family did not welcome him after the gruesome war which he had witnessed. Then he met Sherlock. Sherlock made his heart race in a way even a war couldn't, with every villain they defeated and every puzzle they solved. Sherlock gave him somewhere he belonged. Sherlock was where he belonged. He hadn't noticed when it began raining and right now John didn't even know if he would make it home, would he ever get to see sherlock deduce a crime scene again. Would he ever get to yell at sherlock about how the victim can't kill themselves in Cludo, would he ever get to wake up to the smell of mold in the toilet or the kitchen on fire?
John's vision was getting increasingly blurry as he stumbled home, he couldn't tell if those were tears running down his face or water from the rain that was now deafening. He did know, however, even through grey vision, the door to 221B Baker Street. His body reacted as soon as he opened the door, almost as if knowing he was safe, he fell onto his knees which didn't do anything for the slashes in his thighs or his increasingly blackening vision.
"Sherlock…" John said barely above a whisper, magnificently Sherlock heard him.
"You finally decided to show John," He shouted as footsteps echoed down the staircase, "What took you so long to get milk?"
"
John thought, "
John's vision finally went as he collapsed completely onto the ground below, he would clean up the blood stains on the carpet when he wasn't so tired.
"John…" Sherlock said when he didn't get a response, quickening his pace down the steps until he saw the sight before him. "John! What's wrong?" His brain could only focus on his friend laying in a puddle of his own blood, making him nauseous for the first time in his life.
"
 was the only thought going through Sherlock's brain, he felt like hours had gone by kneeling in front of his best friend dying on the floor in front of him. He was so zoned out he hadn't heard Ms. Hudson call the paramedics after the commotion they made, nor the sirens outside their flat, not even when Ms. Hudson patted his back while comforting him after they took John away on a stretcher. The only thing that brought Sherlock back to earth was the calming sound of John's steady heart monitor.
Thank you for reading! This is my 
fanfiction so constructive criticism would be greatly appreciated.
