Not Boring
John might have "been stupid" (Sherlock's words, of course) and actually gone to pay his respects in person to their late queen. But the queue scared him. Well, not the queue in itself, but the idea of what Sherlock could have got up to in the meantime, with only the vague supervision of Mrs. Hudson. He'd rather have a habitable 221B, ta very much. Especially because the sleuth has been groaning about the lack of inventiveness of the criminal classes, lately.
"At least, something should happen today!" Sherlock had announced, finding John already settled in front of the live coverage. "Everyone is so utterly distracted by this, it'd be a pity not to take advantage!"
"I'm just glad you took care of Moriarty already, Sher. He might have decided to snatch the crown, scepter and orb right off the coffin. That'd be awkward." As lovely as it was, covered in the Royal Standard flag and with the flowers, John couldn't help but think the jewels looked like pretty bait.
Sherlock scoffed. "Despite his seal of choice, he wasn't an actual magpie. Besides, he already had them once. It'd be boring."
"Right. Boring." If his flatmate was hoping for better than that, from anyone, John wouldn't hold his breath."You know what's bugging me, though?"
"What?"
"I can't see Mycroft. Anywhere. Not now, and not before."
"Of course you don't. He doesn't appreciate the spotlight. Besides, he could only participate if he had time off. You don't think that a ceremony of this size would run itself, do you? I'm sure he's found a moment to visit her. In private."
"I'm half surprised he hasn't sent a car around."
"He wants this to actually go smoothly. Why would he summon me, of all people?"
John laughed. Sherlock had a point.
"If you have time to look for Mycroft...does it mean you're finally bored of this?"
"I might be open to suggestions." After all, there was a chance that, whenever they were finished with Sherlock's plan, the thing would still be on. Not like they were rushing it.
"You, me, your bed?" Which meant that Sherlock planned to scream - or make him scream - or both. That was the only reason John walked the extra floor anymore.
"God, yes." They were alive. Might as well celebrate it.
