(N. Clevenger, September 2022)
 I've been away from this – writing in general and fanfic as a whole – for what feels like a very long time. Maybe with good reason, considering the following. I found the first few paragraphs of this on my Google drive where it's sat languishing forgotten for years, and decided to play with it in an effort to practice the whole Putting Words Together Good thing. As you can see by the word count, things spiraled a bit out of control. Could I have made it an injury fic 
 a sick fic? Probably. Am I sorry? Definitely. Unless, of course, you enjoy it.
Lots and lots of Whump Without Plot ahead. I make no money because they don't belong to me.
—-
The car pulls into a smooth stop on the tarmac next to the plane. Alone in the back seat Anthea yawns, wishing she'd had time for breakfast. She combs her fingers through her hair, watching the stairs move into place and the door open. The mobile in her lap vibrates with the arrival of a new email.
She skims over the contents as her boss appears at the top of the steps in her peripheral vision. It's been three days since she's last seen him, a worsening head cold on Thursday making the logical decision for her to remain in town to work from home while he left for the weekend alone to deal with matters elsewhere. She hasn't heard a word from him, other than the message that woke her this morning to announce his return home; he'd shut her out completely and effectively in the name of rehabilitation. She doesn't even know where he's been. Her eyes flick up to the figures descending in the drizzly post-dawn, back down to the screen.
Her mind fills in a picture of Mycroft with his phone to his ear under the open umbrella; she reads two words more before her memory points out that he wasn't the one holding it. She looks up again to see that it's actually Adam in charge of the umbrella, the bodyguard following closely behind to keep it a steady shelter over Mycroft's head. An oddity explained – insufficiently – by the empty right sleeve of Mycroft's coat. The glimpse of his arm in an incongruous dark navy sling only raises further questions.
Anthea sits up against the leather, abruptly much more awake; Mycroft pockets his mobile as they reach the bottom of the stairs. The moisture beading on the outside of the window conspires with the dim grey light to obscure bits of the scene, and the two men cross the short distance to the car in their watery distortion. She tries to clear the frown from her face.
The door opens, a damp breeze sweeping the end of their conversation in with the morning chill. "… to blame. Take the day, see your family." He sounds tired; her fingers twitch in an aborted stretch for her phone as her brain spins through people she might contact for information. How does she not know what's happened? Why had she agreed to take the weekend off?
But now he's ducking into the car, a shadow smile brushing his lips when his eyes briefly meet hers. "My dear. Wonderful to find you so recovered."
Her tongue pushes through the questions crowding her mouth as she watches him settle too carefully on the seat beside her. "Thank you, sir. I feel much better." Her eyes are inexorably drawn to the incongruity of the sling. Has he broken something? His arm? His wrist? "I -"
"Your weekend was restful, I trust?" he cuts her off smoothly.
She keeps the surprise from her expression, heeds the obvious redirection without protest. "And productive." Reaching into the bag at her feet, Anthea extracts a file folder; she sets it on the leather between them. "A few things that need your approval and signature. I was also able to put in some work on the Wernecke report."
The car door closes, and it's only because she's paying so much attention that she catches the tiny deflation. A hard swallow, a long blink. "You weren't meant to be working," he murmurs.
"All done from the comfort of my bed, I promise."
"Hmm..." He doesn't seem particularly convinced; she doesn't feel particularly admonished. Even without the details, it's quite clear which of the two of them has had the most recuperative last couple of days. The car begins to move, the small plane sliding out of view of the window behind him.
Mycroft shifts the manilla folder into his lap, opens the cover and begins to flip somewhat awkwardly through the papers inside with his left hand. Content to ignore her. She picks up her mobile, peeks at the latest emails. Unsurprisingly, there's absolutely nothing that even hints at what might have happened over the last few days. When she glances up again, he's already given up the pretense of reading and is instead gazing out the blurry window. There's a slump to his shoulders that wasn't there a few moments ago.
Anthea moistens her lips, decides to make another attempt. Perhaps, now that they're alone, her boss will be more willing to discuss things. "Sir?" From the lack of reaction, she might as well have spoken inside her own head. She needs to step gently. "I thought we could go over the day's schedule? See if anything from the weekend might've altered things?"
It's not especially clever, but also not entirely a ruse. Their time today is filled as always, and though their driver Sam still has some miles from the airport to go before making any navigational decisions, she's going to have to give him a direction eventually. The tentative original plan had been to head in to the office, likely after a short stop by home, her assumption being that Mycroft would as usual prefer to accomplish a couple of hours of work before his first scheduled meeting. Yesterday she'd been quite pleased with finding those extra one hundred and forty minutes in the day, time stolen for him to decompress a bit after wherever he'd been. Now it feels drastically inadequate.
And she still doesn't know why. Her stomach swirls with an unfamiliar anxiety at this inability to properly do her job.
"Unlikely," he sighs wearily, not looking away from the smeared view. "Unfortunately, my weekend was far less productive than yours. A less diplomatic man might even call it an utter waste of time."
Brilliant. She knows exactly as much as she did before.
"However -" There's a sudden cringe of an interruption as he absently turns his neck, the darting of long fingers toward his right side before he pulls them back. Sharp enough that she moves toward him instinctively, but he waves her away without a glance as he straightens. This time far more cautiously. "However," he starts again, still giving her only his profile, "I 
 just received a call from the PM. He requests a meeting at my earliest convenience, I'm afraid."
Despite the distinctly affected boredom now infusing his voice, there's no doubt that this translates to 
.
There's little she can say. "Yes, sir. Directly to Downing Street, then?" She's pulling up their itinerary, already calculating what might be moved around should this meeting run long. This, at least, she can do.
He surprises her. "The flat first. I know what he wants to discuss, and it will certainly keep long enough for me to change into a more presentable suit."
She can't see anything wrong with the suit he's wearing. But she makes a general noise of agreement, texts Sam up front to let him know their destination. Mycroft returns to paging languidly through the file, the rain splattering the glass around them soon the only sound that fills the space. Making it smaller. Anthea crosses her left knee over her right so as to angle herself slightly in his direction, doing her own impression of productivity while studying him over the top of her mobile. She still can't tell if there's a cast on his arm, getting only glimpses of pale fingers and navy nylon under his coat when he shifts position. Which he seems to be doing more than usual, uncharacteristically fidgety as if he can't quite get comfortable.
Nineteen minutes of this is all he tolerates. A hard annoyed exhale through his nose. "Anthea. Darling. If you can't find a way to focus on your work, I suggest taking another day off."
It's cold, whipping at her despite his eyes not having left his papers, with an undercurrent that she never hears directed her way. The tone drops her gaze instantly. Dries out the inside of her mouth. "Yes, sir," she manages, unaccustomed to the warmth rising to her face. She hasn't blushed in ages.
But before she can begin to unscramble her flustered thoughts, Mycroft sighs, softens. He presses his fingertips to the bridge of his nose. "Forgive me, my dear. I'm -" Whatever he's about to say is cut, dropped like the hand to his face as he changes tack. "Of course you're curious. Merely a minor traffic accident as we were leaving the airport, complete happenstance. Wrong place at the wrong time, as they say."
. "We believe in 'complete happenstance' now?" she asks, struggling to find the right note to match his new casual one as she processes this information.
He cuts her a sideways glance, not moving his head. A look to the window. She's beginning to think it's his shoulder he's injured. His neck. "Yes, well. Difficult as it is to believe, the incident apparently had nothing at all to do with our business this weekend. Thoroughly investigated, I assure you."
She can imagine, even without knowing the nature of the weekend's business. Anthea doesn't have any idea who was with him, but she can't believe no one called her. Adam should have at least texted. The building fury at this purses her lips, and she tries to smooth them into something less contorted. She looks again at the schedule that's still up on the screen.
"I'll contact your physician, find out if he can see you this morning after you speak with the PM." They'll have to postpone the meeting with Lord Wilden. She doubts anyone is going to be pleased with that. It's only just gone half six, and this day feels spiraled completely out of her control.
"Perhaps tomorrow. We've far too much to do today to make any unnecessary detours."
It stops her scroll through her contacts. "Unnecessary?" She's astonished that she's able to make it sound so calm.
"Quite. I've already received adequate medical attention, as you can see. I'm fine."
"Sir…"
They make a left onto a familiar street, the car slowing as they approach the house. He finally faces her, turning almost his entire body in the motion, and she bites back a comment on the clench of jaw muscles under his unconvincing smile. "Your concern is appreciated, but unwarranted. A minor injury, days old. Perhaps still a touch sore, but coddled in an overabundance of precaution."
They pull up to the kerb. It's raining in earnest now.
"I won't be long," he says, though he appears in no hurry to get out. The artificial smile has dissipated into more of a forced expressionlessness; after a stretched moment he moves to open the door. 
 Her focus is entirely on him, and they're both startled when the door opens on its own.
In retrospect she'll be able to recall the way he moves first, immediately shifting as if to place himself between her and the unknown threat. In the moment the world is only the grunt of pain heard under the surprised lurch of her heart, the noise of his now carefully modulated breathing as her brain belatedly registers Adam standing waiting in the rain. Mycroft seems to recover quickly, but she's near enough in the close space to hear the hitch in his breath when he gets out of the car.
"You were meant to go home," he tells the bodyguard in a rough grumble. She can only see the back of his coat now, the dark grey taking up most of the doorframe. It looks for a minute as if he's leaning against the side of the car, but a blink later he's clearly standing unsupported.
"Assignment's not over yet, sir. Wanted to see you home before debriefing."
"Hmm. Well. As you see, I am now home. Thank you once more for your service this weekend; you are now officially relieved. I expect not to see you again until some point tomorrow at the earliest. Understood?"
Mycroft takes a step away from the car, perfectly timed to give her a view of Adam's face and the almost-grin that twitches only a muscle in his cheek. "Yes, sir. I'll just walk you to the door first, sir."
She misses his response when Adam closes the car door between them; the two men move up the path, the bodyguard again providing the sheltering umbrella. The rain bounces up from the gravel, splashing fat and inescapable around their legs, and she's glad not to be out there. She'll wait for Adam to return, pull him into the car with her. They won't have long, but they can talk in here.
Except Adam doesn't return, stationing himself on the step to wait beside the front door. She might think it dedication, but she also watches him ignore two of her texts. Definitely avoiding her then. She wonders if he's afraid of her, like she's heard from so many others. At the moment, maybe he should be.
She decides she's going to ring him about thirty seconds before Mycroft exits the house. When that opportunity is lost, she fires off one last text. 
. Ominous, yes, but deservedly so. If need be, it'll be easy enough to find his address.
There's no chance to speak with him when they return to the car either, Adam swiftly escaping after returning Mycroft's umbrella and promising to at last go home. Mycroft, for his part, becomes promptly absorbed with what appears to be emails. Mindful of the earlier chastisement, she's making more of an effort to pretend not to watch him. Because of this, it's a full five minutes before she notices that he's holding the mobile in his right hand, that the sling is nowhere to be seen.
He's got his clean suit and a freshly upright stiffness to his posture, but maybe it's a little too rigid and he's definitely paler than before. She could be inventing the unnaturally shallow breathing, but not the new deep creases at the corner of his eye. Her fingernails click against plastic as her hand tightens unconsciously around her mobile. Lips parting though she has no idea what she might say.
"What time are we seeing Admiral Cerber?"
"Uh…" She's derailed, has to check. "You're due at his office at three, after the call with Belgium."
He closes his eyes, releases a slow breath through his nose. "And I suppose you intend to do nothing but stare at me until then?"
"With respect, sir… You don't seem well. I'd like to contact Dr. Becker."
"It's nothing," he says, brushing off her words and blinking open his eyes. "Changing was… more difficult than I'd anticipated."
She doesn't know what this quiet admission means, but it sounds as if it proves her point. "Perhaps wearing the sling that they g-"
"Out of the question." It's immovable, decided, and he goes abruptly back to his reading without further discussion. Anthea obediently holds back a frustrated sigh. She understands the importance of appearing uncompromised, of not calling attention to himself so he's able to do his job. But she senses that it's going to be a long day.
It's a long ride, certainly, into the city. No noise but the car cutting through the storm and the occasional clearing of Mycroft's throat. Not about to be told a third time, she keeps her gaze resolutely on her own screen. He looks better, though, when they eventually arrive at Number Ten. Close enough to normal that she suspects no one will think otherwise.
Believable though it may be, she's seen this performance too many times to be fooled.
She doesn't mention this, of course. "Hopefully this will be brief," he tells her as he exits the car. "Lord Wilden can be 
 tedious when he's kept waiting."
Her lips shape a smile even though he's not looking; she watches his back until the door to the official home opens to admit him out of the rain. Once he's inside, she immediately rings his physician's office, making an appointment for tomorrow morning. Easy to be vague on the details of the visit when she doesn't even have them. Perhaps tomorrow, he'd said. She can always cancel it if things improve on their own.
Several emails later and Sam's gone to get tea from the place around the corner. She debates pulling up the Wernecke report, but instead decides to reach out to her counterpart Jamie. If her boss wasn't working completely alone this weekend, it's possible the General knows what was going on. If the General knows, then Jamie definitely does. With a bit of creative questioning, maybe Anthea can fill a few gaps.
, she texts.
It's a surprise when her mobile vibrates just a few moments later. "Jamie? Hi…"
It's loud wherever she is, the people moving about in the background audible even with the rain in Anthea's other ear. Jamie sounds a little out of breath, like she's caught up in the general chaos. "Look, whatever you've heard, love, I promise it's not that bad."
This throws her off completely, her plans to be ambiguous gone before her first full sentence. "What? Jamie, what are you -?"
"Oh. I just assumed you were calling because you'd heard something about the accident." The noise lessens a bit, like Jamie's moving away from the center of things. "No, we're taking those with us. Yes," the other woman says, muffled as if to someone else. Now her voice returns to the speaker. "Don't worry, you'll see. He's fine. When's he due back?"
"He's back. What happened, and why did no one ring me?"
"No one? Love, I'm so sorry. I would've myself if I'd thought -" There are more directions to an unseen figure; Anthea realizes her nails are denting into her palm inside an unconscious fist. She stretches out her fingers, smoothes an invisible wrinkle from her skirt. "Anyway," Jamie continues breezily, "you can see for yourself then that he's alright. Nothing even to tell. We had to send half of them home - thought it was going to bust the talks, honestly - but I swear I never even saw yours take a break. Not like mine: sprained his wrist last month, and you'd have thought the world was going to end."
"
." Impatience bleeds through the name. "I don't even know where you are. I've been poorly, haven't talked to anybody all weekend."
"I was 
 why I hadn't seen you. Good job, too, or you would've been in the car. We were three back. Lucky. Eckert was riding one ahead, and they nearly hit us when they got spun around. Couldn't even see the wanker when he came through that red. Heard he was drunk." A breath, another sidebar; Anthea wishes she could grab hold of the other woman and keep her still. "How long? Sure, love…" Jamie comes back to the phone. "Sorry. We're still here. I get the impression things didn't go quite as well as everyone had hoped."
. "The accident. He was in the car that got hit?" Suddenly she feels hot, foggy. A ghostly echo of the weekend.
"Well, yeah. It looked nasty, too, but I saw him on his feet talking to a paramedic not long after. Police a bit later. I mean, there are always rumors, but he went right to work just after that, far as I could tell. Things got a bit nuts for a while. Had my hands full."
Anthea's watching the front door to the house; when the knock comes on the glass behind her, it scares out an embarrassing squeak. She lowers the window merely long enough to accept the paper cup, not taking the time to thank Sam. She can apologize later.
Jamie's talking again, something about the additional disaster of the weekend's accommodations. "You said 'rumors.' There were rumors?" Anthea asks over the top of it, trying to sound as nonchalant as possible while burning her tongue on a sip of tea.
"Oh, you know. People love to gossip about anything. Just a whisper… Ooh, sweetie, hang on a minute, would you?" More muffled conversation, indecipherable this time as if her hand covers the speaker. Anthea compulsively continues to drink the scalding beverage, noticing the heat only with the burn of each swallow. Staring at the closed door to Number Ten.
"Sorry, sorry," Jamie returns. "We're finally getting out of here soon. What was I -?"
"The whisper," she says. Too quickly.
"Oh right. That. Nothing, really. Just that someone mentioned they'd seen him and Adam coming up from the direction of the bar late Saturday night, and that yours looked none too steady. Like, 'might not have made it back to his room alone' unsteady. And then, well, maybe he was a little late to things the next morning. That's all. Fair enough, if it's true; bloody stressful weekend. Everybody needs a break now and then. Bit unbelievable, though. Doesn't seem like him to go and get pissed in public like that."
"No. It doesn't." He'd be mortified to even know of the rumor. She's not going to be the one to tell him.
"'Course, I also heard he dislocated his shoulder and broke a mess of ribs." She laughs. "People just love to gossip, like I said. You can't believe any of it."
"Wait, what?"
"I know, right? Some people will make up anything to act like they know something no one else does. Ridiculous. I mean, I saw him. 
 seen him. He's fine, right?"
"Of course he is." In fact, it might be worse than she'd guessed.
Jamie's not listening anyway, the commotion picking back up behind her parting. "I have to go, sweetie. Catch up next week, yeah? We'll have lunch?"
She hangs up on Anthea's good bye, leaving her sitting in a stupid silence punctuated only by the wet patter on the roof. It doesn't last long; a few minutes later, her mobile vibrates again. This time another call, a meeting scheduled for tomorrow that can't be put off. The call after that is less urgent, but still needing her attention. When she finally sees Mycroft exit the building, she realizes that her tea has gone cold.
The storm had seemed to be lessening, but it ramps up again now like it's been lying in wait. Ducking his head he hurries down the path through it, a lumpy shape with the umbrella in his left hand and the right tucked as if casually into his pocket. She leans across the seat to open the door for him; her sleeve's soaked before she has a chance to retract her arm.
He brings the weather in with him, coat dripping on the floor, the dark leather. The car starts moving as soon as he closes the door. Gently extracting his arm from its trapped position with the aid of his other hand, his breath comes as a slow dragging inhale through his teeth. "Well that certainly went on far longer than it needed to." It's a mumble, his lips barely moving. Eyes closed, he cradles his injured arm with his head hanging over his knees.
It lasts only a moment; a steadying breath and he's unfolding himself back to accustomed angles. His left hand comes up to smooth down his hair. He clears his throat. "I believe we still have enough time to make our appointment with Lord Wilden?"
She checks the time. "Yes, sir. Barring traffic."
The response is a nod. An extended blink. His left hand creeps back to cup his right elbow; she's not sure if he knows that he's doing it. She thinks his hand might be shaking.
"When's the last time you ate?" she asks him. "I'll have something ordered in?" His lip curls in a reflexive disgust at this thought. Anthea opens the minifridge and takes out a bottle of water. "At least have this then."
"Thank you," he murmurs, accepting the plastic bottle but not opening it. It rests on the seat beside his leg. She watches his eyelids droop once, twice, chin sinking toward his chest before he suddenly jerks back awake. It's clearly painful; his hand presses flat against his shoulder as he takes a couple of deliberate breaths.
She imagines it's been at least as long since he last slept. "Allister rang," she says, instead of this. "He'll be in tomorrow at eleven."
"Mmm…" Another blink. Mycroft rubs at his eyes. "The Geneva situation, I imagine."
"Yes, sir. He's not happy."
"Of course he's not." He coughs, winces. Shifts uncomfortably. Finally opening the water, he sips from it haltingly, staring into the empty space ahead. "Remind me, the lunch with Quinnel…" There's a flash of nausea over his sallow features; he replaces the cap on the bottle, his swallow visible. The water is discarded onto the seat between them. "Thursday, yes?"
This might be the most obvious sign of his exhaustion; keeping his schedule is a large part of her job, but he rarely actually needs her to supply this kind of information. Less often does he get it wrong. "Friday," she corrects.
He swallows one more time, and she wonders if he's going to be sick. Nodding sluggishly, he leans carefully back to rest his head against the seat. "Perhaps a short nap?" she suggests quietly, seeing his eyelids slip again before he wrests them back open. "We have at least fifteen minutes."
Mycroft scowls, but she feels the concession in his subsequent exhale. "Ten minutes," he grudgingly agrees.
"Ten minutes," she echoes.
Anthea checks her messages while he tries to find a tenable position. Gives him another minute after he stops squirming. When she looks up from the screen, it appears that he's already asleep. Satisfied for the moment, she leaves him to it.
