: I don't own anything. Except the first four season on DVD & two coloring books.
Based off a dream I had the night I finished the first 7 episodes of Sherlock BBC, (including Unaired Pilot on YouTube/Dailymotion), this was originally a simple one-shot. Now look at it! Sheesh. Anyway, I had written the first 33 chapters of this right after the second series ended with "The Reichenbach Fall" & at the time, we were all still wondering exactly what happened. So it diverges from there.
As to this story, I had lost track of it many years ago in 2012, but reading through it recently, I remembered my main train of thought & was able to finish it!
Despite his graveyard plea, Sherlock Holmes never returned from the dead. Despite the fact he was there watching his own burial, John Watson didn't know he was still alive.
John Watson woke up with a start. He always jerked out of sleep when having that dream. Sherlock Holmes & James Moriarty were both gone. Sherlock: dead. James? Who knew? Who cared? John knew that if he ever saw that despicable creature again, he would destroy him.
John rolled out of bed & glanced around. He was in a hotel room in a corner of London far away from 221B. It had been a week since that visit to the grave. It was the first visit since Sherlock was driven to his jump, right before his eyes. That jump was almost four months ago. John knew that sooner or later he'd have to take care of certain final things at the flat he once shared with Sherlock. Mrs. Hudson had said she would wait for him. He decided that today would be the day he'd get it over with.
Within twenty minutes, John found himself in a cab heading for the familiar. He didn't even bother with breakfast for once. How could he eat anything on this day? He stood on the pavement staring at the door for several minutes until it opened of its own volition.
"John dear," Mrs. Hudson began, rushing down the few steps to him & pulling him into a motherly hug. "I've been trying to reach you for a while."
"Sorry," John muttered. "I didn't really want to talk."
"Oh, I understand that," Mrs. Hudson went on. "But you must see this now. Come in." She half-pulled him inside to her own flat & shoved him into the nearest chair. "Look at this." She passed him a large yellow envelope. "I found that the day he ...when it happened. It was under my pillow."
"What is it?" John let the papers slide out onto the table top. It was a letter & a smaller long white envelope. The letter, if it could be called that, reasoned out a rent payment for the next five years, including rent increases with in certain amounts of time. The white envelope held cheques written out for those five years.
All were signed by Sherlock.
"He paid ahead. For you."
"What?"
"You know how rich that Holmes family is," Mrs. Hudson. "He's perfectly capable of paying ahead for the next ten years if he wished." After a short moment she added, "Look at the dates."
John took a minute to look through several of them. "He did this the day he died."
"Yes."
John leaned back in his chair until it came off its front legs. "That confirms it. Somehow. I don't know how."
"Sorry … confirms what?"
"I've always had this stupid idea that he faked it," John sat forward again. "That somehow he'd come through that door & glare at us saying, 'How can you think I was dead? It's obvious, isn't it?' But this ..." John shoved the papers & cheques away. "If he was coming back, why pay ahead to ensure the place stays available for me?"
"Oh, John," Mrs. Hudson murmured, sitting down in the chair opposite him. "I'd keep you here anyway. I wouldn't have it any other way. I can't have anyone else in that flat right now. Can't see anyone else but you & Sherlock. When I think I'll never hear that violin again …" She teared up, got up & went to fuss over tea.
"Well, it's up there," John started. "Do you want me to try?"
"Good heavens no!" Mrs. Hudson shrieked in alarm before both burst out laughing. "You can't even sing to save your life. Don't touch that violin!"
John glared. "How do you know I can sing or not?"
"Oh please!" Mrs. Hudson scoffed. "How many showers have you had here? Even Sherlock tried but failed miserably at drowning you out with his violin. Nothing worked against you." John crossed his arms, still glaring. "How's Mycroft holding up?" She quickly changed the subject.
"Not good, not good at all," John said. "He blames himself & I agree with him."
"Oh that poor man."
"I don't know what I feel about him," John half-retorted. He stood up. "Well I better get up there & well, you know."
"Will you stay? Keep the flat I mean?"
"Maybe, we'll see," John answered. "I'll see what it looks like once I've packed up Sherlock's stuff. You want the violin?"
"I should learn to play," Mrs. Hudson mused.
"If I do stay, you can drown my showers out with it." John grumbled.
Mrs. Hudson laughed & sobbed at the same time. "You're horrible."
"Since you don't know how to play violin yet, you would be to."
"Oh hush up you."
John spent nearly an hour simply sitting alone in that flat before he even started. But then, once started, he went into auto-pilot & had packed nearly everything by late in the night. He finally closed the door to Sherlock's bedroom one last time, intending to keep it closed, then headed down stairs & left the violin with Mrs. Hudson. John then entered the little café below & sat down in a corner table.
After about fifteen minutes, Mycroft joined him. "Why didn't you call me earlier?"
"I don't know," John shrugged. "It's all packed except one thing. I left the violin with Mrs. Hudson."
After a moment's thought Mycroft said, "That's fine by me. Sherlock only ever used it to torture me anyway." They both had a short laugh before Mycroft went on. "Did you find his riding crop?"
"Riding crop? No, I didn't see it," said John. "Didn't even think of it."
"Ah well, he probably left it somewhere."
"In the mortuary."
"Sorry?"
"Oh, nothing. First day we met, Sherlock said he left it there."
"I really don't want to know why," Mycroft said with a slight wince. "It's strange though."
"How so?"
"Can't find his crop. Can't find his horse."
"Oh, yeah." A short silence like a rest beat in music passed. "Hang on, he had a horse?"
"Of course, obviously," Mycroft said before he could think. "Why else a riding crop?"
"I don't know, whip dead bodies with?" John scoffed. "I've been his friend for around two years. I never knew he had a horse. How could I not know?"
Mycroft pulled out his wallet & fished around. "It's a, well it isn't white & it isn't grey. Silver. A silver stallion. There he is, riding it." Mycroft handed over a picture.
John instinctively sat back in fright. "I-I-I uh I hate horses. Oh ok. Nice. Um, nice." He gingerly handed it back. Sherlock was perched in the saddle of a huge terrifying monster that looked about ready to jump into action.
"Really? I have three of them myself. Delightful creatures."
"Dreadful animals," John muttered. "What do you mean, you can't find Sherlock's?"
Mycroft was in the process of tucking the picture away. He looked up for a pause. "Oh Bach is gone. That night, after Sherlock, well afterwards, I went for a ride. It's how I clear my mind. The stall for Bach was broken open & that stallion was no where in sight."
"The stall was broken? Did someone steal him perhaps?"
"That would be impossible. Bach let only Sherlock touch him," Mycroft explained. "Besides, the door was smashed from the inside out. No, I think it's more like that special sense animals have. As if Bach somehow knew Sherlock wasn't coming back for him. "
"Hmm yes, it's amazing what animals can do," said John, clearly not impressed at all.
"I still can't find him today. I guess it's a good thing though. I mean, no one but Sherlock could control the bloody beast. He trained him in his own way. I have no idea what to do with that animal if it ever comes back. There now. If you wish to hate a horse, hate Bach. It's the only horse I'll never understand."
"I hope someone found it," John was looking about as ill as he suddenly felt. "A loose uncontrollable stallion. London's streets won't be safe."
"Problem?"
"I've never liked horses & I never will."
"Well, they're not for everybody I guess," Mycroft sighed as he stood up. "My staff should have collected everything by now. Keep in touch, John."
John stood up as well. "Take care." He watched as Mycroft's limo pulled out into the street. Pulling himself out of his trance, John glanced at the clock on the wall. It was nearly 2:30 AM. He sighed tiredly & headed towards the old flat. He hadn't planned on staying here quite just yet but considering how late it was, John succumbed & entered his old bedroom.
