Tattoos are like cherries
When my boyfriend started to suddenly avoid intimacy, without even a case as justification, you'll understand that I began fretting. "What did I do?" was the first question, of course. I'm used to being dumped by my dates, nearly always because of Sherlock. Now that we'd pulled our heads out of our respective arses. and admitted we were interested in our flatmate's instead (more than interested, truly), I wasn't about to shrug away being abandoned. At the very least I wanted to know if I could change it.
Then, though, I did what Sherlock would undoubtedly have suggested, and started observing. Oh, sure, he was trying to hide it, and was even fairly good at it, but I'm a doctor. Sherlock was hurting, and he hadn't asked for my input. That realisation shocked me more than his new behaviour. He'd always trusted me with his health, more than anyone else, even before we actually got together. If that stopped, too...why hadn't he told me to move out yet? Or did I need to be more scared for him than I was about our relationship?
I was tempted to tiptoe around the issue, but we'd done quite enough of that in the past, and I was tired of it. What could be worse than the truth I suspected? So, the following morning, I confronted Sherlock, offering him a cup of tea and a diagnosis. Or at least, letting him know he needed one.
He smiled at me. "I knew that I couldn't have hidden it for long. I promise, though, John, it's nothing serious. And I'm taking care of myself properly. It shouldn't take more than a couple of days, and then there will be no reason to keep secrets anymore. Can you give me that long? I hope you'll enjoy the results."
When asked like that, how could anyone refuse?
Sherlock kept his word, too. Two days later, in the evening, he left the sofa where he was enjoying a cuddle and disappeared. Used to his rather feline ways, I sighed but didn't complain. Who knew what came into his mind?
Minutes later, I received a text. "Come to the bedroom. SH."
I wasn't about to make him ask twice!
He was naked, sprawled on the bed, and turned to give me a smouldering look. Normally, that would have got all my attention, but my eyes drifted back to the unusual part of such a spectacle. Right above Sherlock's glorious arse, there was the inscription "Property of Cap. John Watson", in black ink, enclosed in a circle, which was topped with a plumage I knew all too well.
I couldn't help it. I burst into laugh. "Did you switch St. George in the Fifth Northumberland Fusiliers insignia with...that? Seriously?"
"You don't like it?" Sherlock's voice wavered.
"Oh, I do, love. I'm just wondering who you plan to show it to." If I put a bit of growl into my voice, well. I didn't hear a complaint.
"You don't have the exclusive on getting kidnapped, you know. Should any lucky criminal be also especially idiotic, I thought they deserved a warning." He grinned at me.
I hated that he'd even entertained the idea, but if it could be one more way that I protected him, I was more than happy to. "Mycroft better be ready to disappear the bodies of whoever else claps their eyes on this," I said.
"Don't talk about my brother in bed," my beloved whined. "I missed you, John."
I might not be a genius, but I can take a hint. That night there was no more talking...at least in full sentences. Besides, I was too busy relearning his taste (and seeing if the tattoo changed it), and then making up for the days we'd been apart.
I adored the surprise, despite all the stress it had put me through. Perhaps because of it. Every time since, I made sure to spend some of our foreplay time tracing "my" mark on him. It bugged me, though, how one-sided this was. Which is why, eventually, I got over my own doubts about getting tattooed and went to a parlour. I'd thought, and thought, and I had a plan.
And yes, perhaps there was a little payback in it, because even if Sherlock deduced it on sight, we'd have to wait until I was healed enough.
I was right; he read it off me, as soon as I came back home afterwards. "What design did you pick?"
I smirked. "Do you mean you can't deduce it?"
"I'm a detective, not a miracle-worker, John."
"You're going to see it in a few days anyway. But if you guess it before, I might toss something extra into the fun we'll have then..." I challenged him.
"Guessing destroys the ability to reason!" he complained, giving me a full-on pout.
I just shrugged.
On his demand, we played our personal version of hot and cold then. Some ideas were outlandish even for him (an elephant in a room?), some would be just too embarrassing to ask for (a pink phone? Really?), and then he said: "A heart with both our initials? Dull, John."
"I know, that's why I didn't. Hotter than you've been yet, though." I honestly thought he'd have figured it out, then. Instead, one day later, he was unveiling me himself.
Impatient as ever, he undid my jeans, and then tugged them down together with my boxers. "Oh."
A thin double half-circle decorated my lower stomach, and from it a little medallion rose towards my navel, with "SH's" inscribed within.
"You're not cheating on me with the dog-catcher, are you?" he asked, but there was no heat in it. He knew, of course. As if I could have fucked around without him noticing.
I laughed. "Nope, love. And I apologise if I ever strayed in the past. It just dawned on me it was time to put a ring on it. Or a collar. Or something."
"We have a ring already, Jawn," he breathed, literally drooling on me.
"Not one I can't take off."
His moan at that made me shiver. The next one reverberated against my cock. And well... I'm not going to share more than that. Both because I actually like being the only one to know the details of how amazing Sherlock at playing bodies - so much better than his violin - and because my higher brain wasn't exactly engaged at the time. I couldn't give you a play by play if I had planned to.
I didn't expect that whim to go any further, but I should have known better. When Sherlock found something that interested him, he never left it before it was fully explored.
"I've been thinking - what about getting another tattoo? An actual matching one?"
I smiled. "I'm open to anything. Do you have any ideas?"
"Kind of. I want one I could show off. Only when we want to, of course, so...maybe on the wrist? All you need is a shirt to cover it, but it might...peek easily. If you want it to." He grabbed a loose paper and a pen.
"Show me, then."
First, he scribbled a vague cylinder, and then added a kind of St. Andreas' cross on one side. "Actually, I was thinking of an infinity symbol. It would be all stretched out, so one oval would go on top of your wrist, one oval right under. And I know technically it should only cross once, but if it did on both sides of our wrist, you could read it no matter how you move your wrist. I thought we could insert inside the infinity symbol two more images to represent each of us. Our own on the bottom of our wrist, our beloved's on top of it. And also - I was hoping we could choose each other's identifiers."
"Uh, sure. So, have you already decided on mine?" It would give me a guideline, hopefully. I didn't want to pick something he would be embarrassed by or flounder somehow. I'm more of a words than images person, after all.
Sherlock nodded. "A candle."
My surprise must have shown, because he elaborated. "When Angelo's new trainee forgot a candle for our table and you demanded it...I knew you were sure. That you hadn't been just overjoyed by my return, or confused by the time that you'd spent without me, making everything seem rosier or more intense than it was, or a million other things. You wanted this."
I kissed him. What else could I do? I wasn't about to call him out on so much sentiment.
Then, I found my answer. "An ouroboros." Eternity and rebirth. When someone literally dies and resurrects himself for you...as soon as Sherlock explained his actual motives, I didn't declare myself on sheer adrenaline. I told him how much I loved him drunk on hope. A well-founded one, as it turned out.
We went to the parlour together, this time, and the artist could have done anything, because we couldn't keep our eyes off each other. Thankfully, only those. When it was completed, we were ushered out quickly. I bet he feared some kind of contamination, and not entirely unduly. We did manage to keep it to above the clothes until we were back home.
But more elating than that was when it was all healed and we got to show it off to our next crime scene. Nobody understood, of course - Anderson couldn't have found his nose with both hands, we didn't expect him to divine the meaning of these. But Greg's indulgent, paternal smile said that he might not know, but he had an inkling - and he'd want to know all next pub outing we had. I could expect some gentle ribbing for the two of us being saps, but nothing worse than that.
Since I'm never one to be outdone, our last (for now) tattoo was my idea.
"You know as well as I do that the actual human heart doesn't look like the ones in every emoticon..but have you heard why they're like that?"
"If I ever did, I deleted it," he huffed.
"The heart drawing is actually meant to be two human hearts, nestled together. Can't say that I don't like the idea, and not because of Doctor Who."
That got me a laugh. "Timelords influencing art is the kind of thing they should put in an episode, though."
I managed to get him properly addicted to the show, and that was not the most minor of my accomplishments.
"Anyway, I started to think..."
"Only started?" Just because we were in love, it didn't mean that Sherlock had lost all his snark. I'd worry more about pod people than developing feelings otherwise.
"Like you did last time, I wanted your input on the design. I kinda fancy a double anatomically accurate heart on my chest, And I was thinking one of the ventricles - well, the right one, unless you come up with an especially elaborate image - could be decorated with something else. But this time, I was hoping we could each pick our own symbol. "
His eyes shone. I knew I had him at 'anatomically accurate'. "For what?"
"When we knew not about the other, but ourselves. You know, that mix of "I'm smitten," and "I'm so fucked." Unless that last part was just me." I chuckled.
"Not just you," Sherlock replied, pouting. "Anyway, no doubts. A bullet."
"Which one?" I wish I didn't have to ask, but we had a bit of a record.
"The first one. I refuse to cover such a detailed idea in a shock blanket, but when I realised you were clever enough to deduce I'd been kidnapped, brave enough to follow and caring enough already to shoot a serial killer for me...how was I supposed to stop feeling?" He actually sounded a little put-out. As if it was a failing of some sort. I might have to investigate whether Mycroft had been more of an arsehole than usual lately. "And for you?"
" Same night, actually, but I'm gonna go with a fortune cookie. I've killed to protect my friends, more times than I could count. Afterwards, I had to acknowledge that this was different. You were ridiculous 'deducing' these stupid cookies, and I didn't even want to take the piss. You were too damn adorable for that. "
"I'm not," Sherlock protested.
"You always will be. " And I kissed him, before booking another appointment at our, by now, tattoo parlour.
