It was the first of December. A quiet sunny morning, though the weather was really cold. The first snow had appeared last week and it hadn't stopped snowing since, but inside the small flat, it felt very warm. Sherlock was sitting in his leather armchair, reading The Sunday Times, when he heard John suddenly speak up.
"Sherlock?"
Sherlock lowered the papers a bit, he peeked a look at John. The man was sitting in the kitchen, feeding Rosie some papayas from her little pink bowl. He didn't look at Sherlock, he just continued his focus on Rosie and waited for Sherlock to show that he had heard him.
So he did.
"Hmm?"
"I was thinking… if we could invite Mycroft to our dinner next week?"
Sherlock got a bit surprised, but he then gently smiled. A smile hidden behind the newspaper, John could not see through.
"John… It's your daughter's birthday party. You can invite anyone you want to."
"And it's your brother!" John was a little upset at Sherlock's words, he wasn't aware that he was literally growling.
Sherlock stood up. He walked to the kitchen table, and gently put his hands on both John's shoulders.
"My bad. I didn't mean that… I mean, I'm fine with him coming, of course. It's your decision and I respect whatever you want to do. I'm just… not sure if he will come."
John didn't reply. Sherlock continued massaging his boyfriend's shoulders apologetically and lowered his voice a little more.
"He never likes to be surrounded by… people. Will you be cool with his rejection, if there will be?"
John quietly sighed.
"I just… want him to feel remembered… He always seems so
."
"Solitary, you mean? You know Mycroft, don't you?"
John didn't answer Sherlock's questions. Instead, he slowly turned around to look at Sherlock and touched his hand which still placed on his shoulder.
"I want to show him that we do care, that he will not be excluded from our family's event. And to say thanks. For what he did in Sherrinford. He volunteered his life for mine, Sherlock… And to apologize for our cruel joke that day."
Mrs. Hudson rarely went upstairs these days. Her hips were really killing her, especially in this freezing season. John often brought little Rosie down to play with her, and to also check on her health. However, today, she felt like she should come upstairs on her own, because there was something she just remembered to tell her two most favorite lovely young men.
"Sherlock, John!" She greeted them with a smile. Rosie ran to her embrace instantly.
"Oh Mrs. Hudson? Why are you here? Why didn't you just call us to go down?" John walked to the door and led her to the sofa. "How are your hips today?"
She tightly grabbed his arm. Sherlock also came to sit next to her.
"A little bit better… Well, I suddenly remember to ask… will there be a lot of attendees at Rosie's birthday? I need to do some calculations on the ingredients."
"Mrs. Hudson, you don't have to…"
She slightly patted John's hand.
"Just some cupcakes. Making them will do me no harm, but if I'm not allowed to do anything, I'll be severely saddened. Are we clear on this, John?"
Sherlock giggled to see John's face suddenly slack at Mrs. Hudson's words. Rosie looked at both of them with her naïve confused eyes.
"Just like our Christmas party last year, I think. Just Molly, Greg, and us. In case Rosie suddenly decides to invite her friends too, I'll let you know." John joked at their generous landlady.
A beat of confusion, then Mrs. Hudson turned to look at Sherlock then quietly asked.
"How about your parents? And… will Mycroft come?"
Sherlock looked at her bewilderedly. She was asking just what John had just asked him. John helped to answer.
"Well, Sherlock's parents are abroad visiting their cousins, they will only be back before Christmas, and 'bout Mycroft… we're not so sure. Haven't invited him yet. But I will, though. I'm not sure if he'll accept to come… But I thought… you were not too fond of him…"
Mrs. Hudson looked at John knowingly at what he was about to say.
"Yes, I used to hate him. I thought he was just a cold-hearted brother. But seemed like I was wrong. He saved my life, you know… so I'd like to say thanks to him…" And then she looked at Sherlock, smirking. "Does he also like ginger nuts, Sherlock dear?"
Sherlock widened his eyes more.
"Oh… Oh, no…" Then thoughtfully, he added. "But, he likes choco chips."
And with that, Mrs. Hudson smilingly stood up. After all, she knew she had the best chewy choco chip cookies recipe in hand.
"So, can I just buy clothes for her? Pink, right?"
Greg's voice sounded a little hesitant on the phone. He wondered. "I'm not sure if size 24 months is okay, or if I should size up a little. You know, they tend to buy bigger clothes for kids, Molly told me that."
Sherlock smiled. Then he realized that the DI wouldn't see his reaction over the phone call, so he said with his teasing voice.
"John likes her to wear pink, but I believe that Rosie likes purple. John still doesn't agree with me on this, well… Nevertheless, you can size up a little if you're choosing to buy her a jacket. Otherwise, size 24 months is fine."
Greg hummed in reply. Sherlock didn't forget to remind him once again.
"Don't forget to clear up your schedule for the day."
"Yes, sure. How can I miss our little Rosie's second birthday party?"
Sherlock smiled again at the warmth and care clearly shown in his voice. He was about to hang up when he suddenly heard Greg's voice a little bit quivering.
"Hey, Sherlock…"
"Yes?"
Stopped for a moment, then Greg still decided to ask.
"Are Mycroft also coming?"
Sherlock released a breath he didn't realize he was holding. He suddenly got irritated. 
"Seriously, what's wrong with you people? Today it's the third time already I'm being asked this! Why do you all care if he will come or not? It's Rosie's birthday, not Mycroft's! Oh pleaseee! And why must I care?"
Greg quietly replied in his baritone.
"Sherlock… We all know that you do care for him. Don't pretend like you don't. No one's buying it. Well… you even asked me to take care of him, didn't you? But actually, it was an unnecessary request, because… I've already cared about him, you know."
And with that, he hung up on the phone, leaving Sherlock standing so confused in the middle of the kitchen. 
"Brother mine!"
Sherlock decided to greet him teasingly.
At the other end, Mycroft raised an eyebrow, he then released a sigh and replied to his brother.
"Brother dear."
They both kept quiet for a moment - thinking, neither wanted to make the first move. Mycroft was still trying to figure out the point of today's call, when Sherlock voiced up first.
"Mycroft… I'm calling to let you know firsthand that John is going to invite you to Rosie's second birthday dinner next Sat."
"And how do you want me to react to that invitation, brother dear?"
Sherlock took a deep breath. "I don't know. You?"
Mycroft didn't reply right away. Sherlock then added. "Will you come?"
Mycroft got a little startled at this. 
"Are you planning another joke on me, Sherlock? What's it this time?"
"No, Mycroft. We're not doing any jokes to you anymore…" Pausing a beat, he continued. "Mycroft, I'm sorry for that time in your house, we shouldn't have done that…" His voice shook lightly.
The older brother took some seconds to think, and memorize his brother's unexpected emotional moment. Still, he sighed.
"It's okay Sherlock… I wasn't planning to accept the invitation anyways."
"Mycroft…"
"You seriously couldn't have expected me to really show up to a toddler's birthday party, could you?"
"Mycroft, Mrs. Hudson will prepare some chocolate chip cookies, especially for you."
"Oh, now I see. That's why. Can you just tell her please not to bother, and send her my special gratitude?" Mycroft's voice sounded a little distant. "Or must I say those to her myself?"
Sherlock bit his lower lips.
"John and I insist, if you could come, it'd be great. Rosie misses you, Mycroft."
In the other line, he heard his older brother laugh a little.
"You didn't mean it, Sherlock. She surely doesn't miss me. With that little mind, she couldn't even remember my face after our only very few occasions."
It was time for Sherlock to use his trump card.
"Lestrade asked about you. He hoped you would come. He said he missed you."
"What?"
Sherlock knew it. There must have been something between those two. Or… there would be. Yes, there should be. He smiled triumphantly. Again, a smile that Mycroft couldn't see. He could still sense it from the other line though.
"Yes, he did. Now it's your turn to answer John's call. I suppose he'll call you in about 30 minutes."
"What, Sherlock? Wait, what did you just say? What did you mean by saying that to me?"
"I don't know, Mycroft. I just feel like saying that. So, bye."
After a beat, Sherlock even added.
"See you next Sat, brother dear."
So, Mycroft reluctantly accepted the invitation. He had no other choice, hadn't he? Then the night came. He had prepared a total of three different gifts for the little girl, all in different colorful wrapping papers since three days earlier, despite his crazily busy schedule, he insisted on choosing and buying them himself. Now he had been sitting in this armchair, looking restlessly at his pocket watch for almost two hours already. He had asked Andrea to clear up his schedule for the afternoon and the whole night unless and only in case there would be a bombing or similar events as such. So far, the day had been quiet, and thus, he was still sitting in his armchair, looking mindlessly at the fireplace while holding the watch with his left hand waiting for the hour hand to strike 7. Then he would drive to Baker Street on his own as he had dismissed his personal driver today: he didn't feel like making David wait outside for him to attend a birthday party and then drive him home later, it would make Mycroft feel like he was a toddler too. And that surely not what he would like to feel about himself.
Mycroft slightly leaned his head on his right hand and was massaging his temple as another headache was coming once again. For years, he had made friends with headaches and migraines, that he now didn't even bother to talk to his doctor when another episode came. He already knew which medicines to take. Actually, he didn't take any medicine today, he would rather bear the pain than the drowsiness. He had experienced period headaches for almost three days, but tonight it became a little harder to bear. His ears were ringing, and his vision suddenly became a bit blurred, but he decided to ignore the weird calls from his body. He stood up, it was time to get ready, but he staggered a bit. His ears continued to ring, and he now saw double. He closed his eyes and tried to shake this feeling away and moved forward, but he still felt nauseous. 
, he suddenly realized, so he aimed to grab his cell phone at the kitchen table when he unexpectedly – collapsed. He hit his head quite badly – he didn't know for sure exactly which hard object did his head make contact with, all he knew was a sudden shooting pain and then, everything blurred even more and then darkened before his eyes.
It was almost 8 pm already, and Mycroft still didn't show up. They were all sitting at the kitchen table, with only drinks in their hands, watching John feeding Rosie with anxiety gradually building up in the atmosphere. It had well passed her dinner time, so John decided to feed her firstly while waiting for Mycroft to come. All the dishes were still keeping warm in the oven, while the clock just continued to tick by. No one dared to ask about Mycroft, just by a few glances at Sherlock they all knew they should keep their mouths shut. Molly volunteered to help with the baby, while Mrs. Hudson was peeling some more apples, saying that they should eat fruit before the meal, aiming to ignore the rumbling sound in everyone's stomach. Greg just pretended to play with his soon-to-run-out-of-battery mobile phone. Sherlock looked at his phone edgily, still no notifications, but he didn't want to take the initiative to message or call his brother. It should be Mycroft's turn to contact first if he finally decided not to show up despite his acceptance of John's invitation. Being a well-mannered man, he should not have kept everyone waiting for them like this…
The thought suddenly gave him a start. He now finally realized there was something not right here.
No. Being Mycroft, he would never make anyone wait for him like this. Sherlock knew that. It was something that Sherlock could be sure about.
Sherlock woke up from his anger. Something wrong must have happened to his brother. 
 He grabbed his phone and instantly tried to call him. Everyone just looked at the detective with their wide-opened eyes. No answers. He called again while abruptly standing up.
"He's not answering. It's only one point eight miles from Pall Mall to Baker Street. Even if he walked here, it shouldn't take this long. Damn it. I should have realized this earlier. I think something bad must have happened."
John was shocked, as well as everyone.
"What?"
Sherlock released a breath he didn't notice he was holding.
"Yes… Mycroft never failed to answer my phone calls, never, even when he was abroad. And this is the fourth missed call already. And… and he promised to come, he wouldn't break his promise… I know… I know that… It's just not his style… I will contact Andrea right now."
Greg swallowed hard. His cell phone was still in his hand, totally forgotten. He felt his body gradually shaken up. He mentally blamed himself why he hadn't contacted Mycroft earlier. Sherlock had a right to let anger cloud his judgment, but he… He should have acted... Just a phone call, why hadn't he thought about it sooner? It didn't take a genius mind to think of a phone call. Greg tightened up his hand to stop himself from shivering.
"Still no answer. I'm coming to his house." Sherlock now left the table, however, he staggered a bit as he was still a little confused, even with his genius mind he couldn't figure out what exactly he should do next, but then he decided to quickly walk towards the door. Taking his long Belstaff coat, he was about to leave immediately when John ran after him.
"I go with you."
Sherlock took John's hand, trying to control his own shaking, he gripped his partner's hand tightly.
"John, stay home with Rosie. It could also be nothing. It's her birthday today, we can't both leave. I'll just go for a while and come back soon."
John hesitated. Greg quickly spoke up. He had stood next to John since when Sherlock didn't notice.
"John… Sherlock is right. You should stay at home with Rosie and everyone. I will go with him, you don't have to worry."
John clenched Sherlock's hand very hard, and then quickly, he let go of the grasp, watching Sherlock and Greg hurry down the stairs, leaving an unpleasant silence in the flat. On the wall, a balloon lightly burst the tape, falling to the floor without anyone noticing.
"Sherlock, let me drive." Greg headed towards the silver car he parked nearby. His hands were still shaking slightly, but he knew that he must be much calmer than Sherlock right now.
Sherlock didn't reply. He just quietly sat in the passenger seat, his eyes still straight, but his hand squeezed the phone hard, as if with just a little more force the phone would crumble. Greg glanced at him with concern, wanting to comfort him by saying "It's probably nothing.", but then he realized he couldn't lie to himself either. He himself was also trembling with fear. Greg bit his lips, he reached out and pressed the button to turn on the police siren taped to the roof of the car, and in the constant wailing of the sirens, no one said anything more, and the car quickly rolled away.
Sherlock kept pressing the redial button to Mycroft's number. Still no answer. A text message from Andrea, confirming that Mycroft wasn't in his office, and his schedule remained empty from the afternoon until now. She was also on her way to Pall Mall, because only Mycroft had access to his home surveillance camera, so she was also frustrated with worry but could do nothing to further check. Glancing at the misspelling in her text, Sherlock couldn't help but grit his teeth. He silently prayed
. But in his head, all the worst images kept running through like a bad movie, his mind filled with countless corpses he had ever seen in his career, but those corpses all had Mycroft's face. Sherlock was so scared, he put his head in his hands, trembling slightly. 
Thirteen minutes later they were at Mycroft's. Before Greg could stop the car, Sherlock already opened the door and jumped out. He rushed into the house, forcing his fingers, which were so cold with fear – to quickly press the key code. The door clicked open, and it was dark inside, only the flickering light of the fire. Sherlock hurried into the living room, his voice loud.
"Lestrade, turn on the light. Mycroft, where are you? Mycroft?"
Greg quickly ran after him. His eyes had not yet adjusted to the darkness, he tried to recall his memory. 
Sudden light flooded the house. Greg looked around, but he didn't see Sherlock, nor did he see Mycroft. He ran further inside. Here they were… Sherlock was kneeling on the kitchen floor, before he was Mycroft, lying motionless. A pool of blood splattered below his head, already darkening. His face was too pale. Too pale... Sherlock opened his mouth but couldn't say a word, trembling, he kept trembling, he couldn't tear his eyes from his hand smeared with Mycroft's blood: in the dark, he'd unconsciously touched the floor and then, when the light showed him the bright red color of that sticky liquid, Sherlock actually froze with fear. He didn't dare to touch Mycroft, he was afraid that if he touched him he would have to face the truth - a truth he didn't want to face. Sherlock seemed to be too scared, his mind drifted back to the past, where there always was a warm hand of Mycroft holding his hand, there always was his voice so comforting and encouraging, he had never been this cold, never this silent. Tears fell from his eyes, dripping on the floor, he still couldn't say anything, he just stared mindlessly. Greg slowly knelt beside him, with a shake in his voice.
"Mycroft..."
He reached out slightly, smoothing a lock of hair from Mycroft's forehead. He just wanted to… gently take care of that person, even just for one final time. Mycroft was always well groomed; he wouldn't be pleased if he knew his hair was messed up like this. Greg no longer cared what Sherlock would think of him, he gently stroked the hair of Mycroft, who was now so silent that he could no longer feel his hand moving softly, tremblingly, gently gliding through his cheeks...
There was still warm…
Mycroft was still warm.
Greg jumped at the touch. He quickly brought his hand to Mycroft's nose. Still there a light breath. He was shocked, immediately resting his ear on Mycroft's chest. He could still hear the sound of his heart beating softly, albeit very slowly, but…
"He's still breathing, Sherlock, he's still breathing..."
Sherlock seemed to wake up. He also buried his head in Mycroft's chest. Indeed, he could still hear the heartbeat. He hugged him tightly, tears still falling from her eyes.
"Mycroft… Mycroft… Here I am. Hang on, I'll call an ambulance right away. Mycroft…"
Greg was in such a hurry, he aggressively pushed Sherlock away and quickly examined the wound on Mycroft's head. On the right side of the head, though it bled a lot, the wound was half-closed. He tilted Mycroft's head back and immediately performed CPR.
"Mycroft… Hey… Come on… Breathe… Mycroft, stay with us…"
"The patient was very lucky to be found in time and is now out of danger. We initially suspected his comatose was due to a major stroke, but the CT scan showed that he appeared to have fainted due to a transient ischemic attack. However, serious intracranial hematoma caused by the impact led us to still have to perform the surgery. It was successful and the patient is expected to regain consciousness in the next few days."
"We were lucky."
The doctor looked at Sherlock with a puzzled look.
"Sorry, what did you say?"
Sherlock let out a small breath.
"It was not that he was lucky because he was found in time. We were lucky that we were able to find him in time…"
The doctor was silent for a moment, then continued.
"Right. If not treated early, there is a high chance of a more serious stroke, combined with the internal bleeding that might be untreatable. Fortunately, he was taken to the hospital in time."
Greg still wasn't free from his anxiety. He glanced at Sherlock, whose hand John was clutching. Greg's voice trembled.
"When can we visit him?"
"Patient is still in the intensive care unit. If there are no abnormalities, about 6 hours later he will be transferred to the postoperative room. Normally we don't allow family visits, but because of special circumstances, family members can visit for half an hour, one by one, provided you wear enough protective clothing."
"Are there any long-term complications, doctor?" John spoke softly.
"We expect the patient to make a full recovery. Really, he's very lucky." The doctor, recognizing he had just chosen the wrong word again, glanced over at Sherlock, then continued. "Just a little longer, if there ever occurred a major stroke, it would definitely be life-threatening. In this case… it is possible that in the first few weeks the patient will experience confusion or difficulty in communicating or moving, but in the long term, when the facial edema gets better and with appropriate physical therapy and family care, I think he will fully recover."
"What about the future…is there a high risk of another stroke?" Greg bit his lip, he looked at Sherlock's paleness but decided to ask.
The doctor smiled, an apologetic smile.
"We are all human. Everyone is at risk of having a stroke. Even me, and you. To him, he must even be more careful, because if there is a second stroke it will not be as simple as this. And it is better not to leave the patient to live alone without a loved one by his side. He also needs to avoid overwork or emotional trauma, don't make him too emotional." Then he took Greg's hand. "Everything shall be fine."
Mycroft opened his eyes, but it was not intolerable brightness that flooded into his still weak vision. There was a black shadow looming above him, who was both squeezing his right hand a little bit too hard and staring at him with his wide green irises. Mycroft felt himself blank of thought, he did not know what to feel, seemed like everything was still numb to him. One thing he knew, was that he was in a hospital bed, he barely felt pain, and that there was something he wanted to say.
"Sherlock…"
Yes, it was his brother's name that last appeared on his mind when he lost consciousness, and the same name had reached his mouth at the moment he finally came to his sense. It was him that had been here holding his hand for hours, refusing to leave, staring at his stats, waiting for him to finally wake up. It was him that the reason Mycroft had fought darkness to return to the living land.
Sherlock released a long-held breath. His brother still recognized him. He found himself unable to form a word in reply, he just look at his brother's eyes, those eyes he thought he'd never see again… He still remembered the feeling when he saw Mycroft so pale, lying in a pool of his own blood, how scared he was… He hadn't fully gotten rid of the fear. So, Sherlock just cried. Silent tears didn't stop rolling down his pale cheeks. Silent tears that made Mycroft widen his eyes in confusion.
"Hey, Sherlock…"
The detective consultant realized that he might be making Mycroft worry, and he suddenly remembered the doctor's order of not to make the patient emotional. He got started, tried to wipe his tears away and smiled at his brother.
"Mycroft, how are you feeling?"
Mycroft didn't answer. To him, his feeling was not the main concern. He just wanted to say something first…
With his raspy voice, he managed to say lowly.
"I thought I didn't get to say goodbye…"
Sherlock just stared at him for a long moment, then, salty tears once again escaped them.
"Mycroft, don't say unlucky words. I'm here, we'll take care of you…"
Mycroft tried to squeeze his hand back, but found himself still unable to. He smiled a little though.
"How long do I have?"
Sherlock was shocked at the question; it was then he realized that his crying might have got Mycroft to the wrong conclusion. He smiled then sat back down on the chair, his hand still didn't leave the grip.
"No, you're fine. You'll be fine. I'm… I'm just too happy to see you awake. Happy tears, see? It got nothing to do with your diagnosis, brother."
Mycroft raised his eyebrows. 
.
"A stroke?"
"TIA. But the fall gave your brain quite a bleeding, so surgery was needed. You're still at high risk of stroke, though."
"So I supposed you didn't call the dinosaurs?"
Sherlock laughed a little, while his eyes still wet with tears.
"Yes, I didn't. They're still at Aunt Audra's. Knowing nothing, as always."
Mycroft gave him a thankful look. For his thoughtfulness of not informing their parents of the news, which would bring them nothing but unnecessary worry.
"You saved me?"
"I… No, I only found you first. But it was Lestrade who performed CPR. If it was only me there, you might not be this lucky."
Mycroft widened his eyes even more, if it was still possible. The man's name actually made his heart skip a beat, if that should be a good thing to consider in this situation. His doctor might not be too happy to hear so. Anyways, he believed he should keep his poker face, so he changed the subject.
"I didn't think you would cry…"
"Me neither. But I did. So… Don't do that again, Mycroft."
He smiled at his younger brother's childish thought.
"Actually, you know there would come a day when you must stand before my dead body…"
"Stop saying that, or I will not forgive you…"
"For me just saying the bare truth?"
"For you thinking of leaving me alone in this life."
Mycroft just continued to smile.
"I also don't want to… But I'm quite older than you, and when there comes a time, later or much later, I would feel relieved to know that you will not be alone."
"You're saying too much. Rest, Mycroft."
"I just woke up."
They both stared at each other defiantly. Sherlock resigned first. He lowered his voice.
"You don't know how it felt when I found you laying there. I thought… I thought you were dead…"
Mycroft also softened.
"I know how it feels, Sherlock. When I found you in that alley, when you were shot, when you went missing in Serbia… I didn't lie when I said your loss would break my heart."
"Yours would break mine too. So don't talk about death."
"What should I say then?"
"I don't know. How about you promise me to reduce your workload, eat healthier, and… allow me to come live with you?"
"What? How about John and Rosie?"
"I don't know. Haven't figured it out yet. But I suppose you'd better have me than the dinosaurs."
"I can't be a burden, Sherlock."
"You're not. Requiring the care of your own brother is totally normal."
"It's literally the definition of being a burden, Sherlock… I can live alone."
"No. If this happened again and no one was around, you may die."
"I can hire a nurse."
"You'd rather live with a stranger than with your own brother?"
"I'd rather live with a stranger than break your family with my need."
Sherlock almost cried again; his voice trembled.
"I cannot leave you to deal with this all alone, Mycroft… You didn't leave me when I overdosed, did you?"
Mycroft sighed.
"Sherlock… The family you're having is the one thing I cannot give you, and I will never allow anything that might harm your relationship with John. If I would die, I'm fine with it. I cannot ruin your life with mine."
Sherlock could no longer hold back, he cried again.
"But I'm not. I'm not fine with you facing a higher risk of premature death, not if I can prevent it. You… you don't understand anything, Mycroft. I told you to stop talking about death, don't you get it?"
And with that, Sherlock stormed out of the room, leaving Mycroft quietly whispering for himself to hear.
"Thank you though, brother mine."
"What's up, Sherlock? Why were you yelling? Did you forget that doctor told us to avoid him getting too emotional?" Greg asked while looking inside. Mycroft was falling into sleep again.
"He didn't agree with me moving in to take care of him. He said he didn't want to be a burden. But he's not… He's not a burden, Lestrade. He's my brother. And… I cannot leave him alone, not after this."
Greg sighed.
"I understand your feeling. But… even so, this is not the good timing to discuss. Can't you just wait for him to recover more?"
"I know… My bad… But…"
Greg just kept silent. Sherlock added.
"We argue all the time. He must hate me a lot."
"You know he doesn't, Sherlock. And, I might have a way out for you."
"And what that is?"
"Me." He smirked. And added. "I care for him too, you know."
The brothers weren't mad at each other for too long. By the afternoon, Greg heard the soft sound of a violin coming from the hospital room. 
, Greg still remembered its lyrics. He hummed along while silently standing by the door.
/
/
For days, Greg stayed in the hospital with Sherlock, while John ran back and forth because he still needed to take care of Rosie. At first, Mycroft was quite surprised to see Greg still lingering around, but day by day, he gradually began to get used to Greg's presence. Greg didn't lie when said that he would take good care of Mycroft. Not just physically, but also emotionally, Greg had always been there for him.
Mycroft was discharged two weeks later, just in time to make up for Rosie with his generous amount of Christmas gifts, and still be able to taste Mrs. Hudson's best cookies and a pinch of eggnogs with John's approval. He almost fully recovered, could walk around with the help of a stick, or his umbrella. He still worked at home, still decided to hire a nurse and refused Sherlock or Greg's insistence to move in. But his relationship with Greg had improved to a point of… he no longer considered himself a lonely person anymore. And one day, when the weather was still cold, Greg would stand before his house, ring the doorbell, with a bag of clothes in one hand, a box of chocolates in another hand, and he would ask to come inside for the night because, well, because the weather was too cold. And surely, Mycroft would say yes.
And Greg never moved out again.
Later on, whenever thinking back, Greg always felt a bit thankful for that day's incident. He didn't mean that he wanted Mycroft to suffer. But, what must come must come. The incident had given him quite an inside look at how fragile human life was – that even though Mycroft always seemed so distant and unreachable, deep down below he was just another human being, craving companionship, and love, and care… just like anyone else. What happened to Mycroft made him realize he had literally no more time to waste on wondering if he was worth a man like him. He decided to act, he must make a move, and so he did. The event brought them together, not just Mycroft and himself but the whole family. And together, they were ready to face whatever the next years would bring to them.
And it surely was the right attitude to have.
Because, after all, they all cared for each other, so deeply. And they all knew that by heart.
