 Sherlock, along with its characters, location, etc. are the property of BBC and Sir Arthur Conan Doyle. I do not own them, though I definitely wouldn't mind being on a first name basis with Benedict Cumberbatch.
John gets shot and nearly dies during a case, and Sherlock has time to wonder if this is the kind of pain he put John through when he jumped off St. Bart's. Set sometime after the series. Language warning. One-Shot.
….
Did I Do This to You?
….
"
Sherlock didn't even have time to turn around at the sound of John's scream before he heard the bang of a revolver, a wet splat, the thump of a body hitting the ground, and the screech of tires spinning out against the pavement, all within seconds. He whipped around, his signature Belstaff billowing around him, to see a black sedan whip around the corner (memorizing the license plate number in the process) and John lying motionless on the sidewalk, a hole in his chest and a pool of blood spreading around him.
Without thinking, Sherlock dropped to his knees next to his friend to put pressure on the wound, screaming for Lestrade to call the paramedics. The D.I. careened around the corner mere seconds later, out of breath until he saw John and then immediately snapping to attention. He called the paramedics and roped off the scene while Sherlock frantically tried to keep the blood in John's body.
He kept shouting for John to open his eyes, to wake up for him, 
but nothing seemed to be working. He even went so far as to slap his friend across the face, hard, but to no avail. He was pushing on John's chest so hard that he wasn't sure he could breathe even if he wanted to, but the feeling of John's blood seeping through his fingers (much too quickly) was making him panic and he wasn't sure what else he could do.
The seven minutes it took the paramedics to arrive were the longest minutes of Sherlock's life. He wasn't sure he had ever felt such terror in his life, not even when he'd had a gun pointed at his face (more than once).
The paramedics pushed Sherlock to the side and started working on John, which left nothing for him to put his mind toward to try to ward off his increasing panic.
He shakily backed against the wall and ran his hands through his hair, realizing too late that they were sticky with blood. Now, with the smell of John's blood so close to his nose, he was having a hard time breathing. He bent at the waist and put his hands on his knees, trying to force oxygen into his lungs that weren't very eager to take it. Just as he felt like he was going to black out, he felt hands roughly take hold of his shoulders and push him upright.
"Sherlock, you have got to pull yourself together, mate." Lestrade's worn, worried eyes swam into focus. "They're about to take John to the hospital, and if you want to ride in the ambulance with him you have to 
"Lestrade, I…" Sherlock choked on his words and failed to take a deep breathe.
"I'm worried too, all right, I'm fucking 
but the paramedics cannot focus on helping John if you're having a panic attack in the back of the bloody ambulance!"
Sherlock tried to calm down, he really did, but he still couldn't fucking 
damn it! "Lestrade, I…" he tried again. He tipped forward and had to grab the detective's shoulder to stay upright. He saw the paramedics loading John onto a stretcher and started panicking even more.
"Sherlock!" Lestrade pushed him roughly up against the wall and slapped him across the face. Hard. The feeling of the welt forming on his cheek snapped Sherlock back into focus. He took his first deep breath since he'd heard John's body hit the sidewalk.
He caught Lestrade's hand just as he was rearing up to hit him again. "Okay, all right." He breathed. "I'm… I'm not freaking out anymore." He patted Lestrade's shoulder as he moved past him. "Thank you." He muttered.
"Any time, mate, let's go." Lestrade walked briskly next to Sherlock toward the ambulance just as they were loading John into it, barking at a sergeant that she was in charge until he got back.
"Where are you going, Lestrade?"
"To the hospital, you idiot. He's my friend too."
"You're the Detective Inspector, you cannot just leave a crime scene whenever you feel like it."
"I'm the Detective Inspector, I can do whatever I goddamn please; and if anyone has anything to say about me riding in the ambulance with my friend who got shot, they can take it up with my arse."
Sherlock would have been impressed with Lestrade's comeback if he hadn't been so worried about John. He still managed a small, approving eyebrow raise in the detective's direction.
They climbed in the back of the ambulance just as the paramedics were about to close the doors. Sherlock nearly fainted when he saw how pale John looked, and how red the bandage already was that was wrapped around his chest. He felt Lestrade grip his shoulder tightly as they watched the paramedics hook John up heart monitors and IVs and an oxygen mask.
Sherlock watched the steady, if faint, beat of John's heart on the monitor as the paramedics worked to rewrap his chest. He was just starting to breathe a little easier when the signal crashed.
"HE'S CODING!" One of the paramedics yelled, reaching for a crash cart shoved in the corner. Lestrade's grip on his shoulder tightened to the point that Sherlock was starting to lose feeling in his hand.
One paramedic started CPR while the other turned on the defibrillator and started charging it up. Sherlock stopped breathing all together, once again running his bloody hands through his hair.
"STAND BACK!" the paramedic with the defibrillator shouted, making the one doing CPR jump back just before he pressed the paddles to John's torso, above and below the thick bandage wrapped around his chest.
John's back arched completely off the bed and crashed back down, and Sherlock felt the breath leave his lungs once again when the monitor didn't pick up a steady signal. The paramedic continued CPR while the machine charged back up, and Sherlock unconsciously reached for the hand on his shoulder.
"Lestrade…"
"It's gonna be alright, mate." Lestrade choked out.
The paramedic shocked him again, and Sherlock felt a tear drip from his eye. There was still no signal.
"Sherlock, I know it's hard, but you need to breathe." Lestrade whispered as quietly as he could over the wail of the siren. 
"I… I can't…"
The paramedic reached down with the paddles one more time, at their highest voltage, screaming for the other guy to stand back. Even Lestrade help his breath.
This time, after John slammed back down on the gurney, the heart monitor picked up a faint but steady signal, and Sherlock finally breathed.
The arrived at the hospital just then, and Sherlock and Lestrade were pushed out of the ambulance, literally, as nurses reached to pull John out. He was whisked off through a set of double doors and the two of them were left standing in the ambulance bay, staring after him.
Lestrade led Sherlock through the doors and over to a waiting room, pushing him down in a chair.
Sherlock buried his face in his (still bloody) hands and tried to force himself to take deep breaths. Lestrade sunk down next to him and gripped his shoulder again.
After a few minutes of mostly unsuccessful breathing, Sherlock stood up. "I need… I need to phone Mrs. Hudson, she's… she's going to have to look after Rosie until I can make other arrangements, and... And…" he started rambling, pacing in front of the chairs.
"Sherlock, let me handle all that. I… I can phone Mrs. Hudson and figure everything out, and I can call and get an update from the scene."
"Oh, um…" Sherlock spouted off the make, model, and license plate number of the car he saw speeding away from the scene. "I didn't see anyone though, I barely had time to get the license plate before I saw... I saw John, and then…" his voice broke and he turned away.
"Sherlock, you gave me way more than I could have expected, given the… given the circumstances." He stood up and grabbed his friend's shoulder again, the only gesture he could think of to give Sherlock any sort of comfort. "Why don't you go into the restroom and clean up, I'll… I'll deal with everything else. You're going though enough right now without having to deal with phoning people and making arrangements."
"You're going through the same thing."
"Not to the same extent, Sherlock. John is my friend, and I love him, but you… I can handle everything, please. Go clean up, I've got this."
Sherlock nodded shakily and slowly walked toward the restroom. He locked the door behind him, stripping off his coat and suit jacket and hanging them on a hook on the back of the door. He rolled up his sleeves and walked over to a sink, gripping the edges of it and staring at the floor.
should have been the one who was shot. 
was the one who should be in emergency surgery right now getting a bullet pulled out of his chest. He had already made John think that he was dead for two years, constantly put his life in danger, and caused his wife to die, and then John had to go and take a bullet meant for him? Was he ever going to do anything right by his friend? Would he ever be worthy of John's love and friendship? All he every did was get high and put his life in danger solving crimes, he should 
have dragged John into his ridiculous life in the first place!
Sherlock looked up and drove his fist into the mirror above the sink over and over and over, until the glass was shattered and his knuckles were shredded. He sunk to the floor and hugged his knees to his chest.
He had always intended to live a solitary life, with nothing more than acquaintances, murders, and cocaine. He would get the occasional visit from his brother, solve a crime, get high out his mind, rinse and repeat, until his heart finally stopped. He never intended to have any friends in his life, let alone somebody like John, who made him actually want to 
 And now John might die and leave him 
where he had been before. And it would be entirely Sherlock's fault.
He buried his face in his arms and forced the tears back from his eyes. John was not dead, he wouldn't die, he 
die, goddamn it! Sherlock would rather jump off St. Bart's again, for real this time, rather than live without John next to him. He would rather be absolutely despised by John and everyone else he cared about for all of eternity than have John die from a bullet that was meant for him.
Sherlock stood and moved to a different sink, one that wasn't filled with blood-covered glass, and delicately washed the blood from his hands and face, running wet hands through his dirty hair to try to get some of the crusted blood out of it. He dried his face and hands with a paper towel and then wrapped his handkerchief around his shredded knuckles. He slipped his suit jacket on, folded his Belstaff over his arm, wiped his face one more time, and then walked out of the restroom into the waiting room with his head held high. He wasn't going to allow himself to think about John dying for another second until he actually got that news.
Lestrade glanced at his bandaged hand as Sherlock walked over and sat next to him, but didn't say anything about it. "Mrs. Hudson says she will take care of Rosie for as long as she needs to, and that you don't have to fuss about making other arrangements because she is happy to have her."
"Good, I hope you said thank you from me." Sherlock's voice was a little more gravely than usual, but Lestrade didn't comment.
"I did. In other news… your description of the car led to my officers catching the guys who… anyway, they're in police custody. Apparently your… skills… led to the capture of their brother in a murder case earlier this year, and they were trying to get revenge. They've confessed."
Sherlock cleared his throat. "Good…" he turned toward Lestrade. "Thank you for… everything, I don't think…"
"Don't worry about it, mate, I was happy to help." Lestrade patted Sherlock's shoulder.
"I mean it, Greg. Thank you."
Lestrade give Sherlock a small smile when he heard his actual first name. "You're welcome, Sherlock."
The pair sat together for hours, the silence only broken when Lestrade stood to take a call from his officers about the case. Sherlock was starting to panic again when a doctor strode through the double doors, covered in an alarming amount of blood.
"John Watson?" He asked, walking up to Sherlock and Lestrade, who were the only two people in the room.
"Yes, we're here for him. I'm the lead detective on the case, and this is a consultant of Scotland Yard. John is out friend." Lestrade was immediately in policeman mode, while Sherlock was, once again, struggling to breathe.
"He survived the surgery." Sherlock breathed a huge sigh of relief and hung onto Lestrade's shoulder. "We retrieved the bullet from his chest and stitched him up. He's in intensive care and he's not out of the woods yet, but if everything goes the way we think it will then he should be fine. He will have a very long recovery, is there someone who can take care of him?"
"I will." Sherlock piped up.
"This is a serious commitment, Mr…"
"Holmes."
"Mr. Holmes, this is a serious commitment, it could take him up to a year to fully recover from his wound."
"I won't let John down." Sherlock said, and he meant it.
"All right, well if you would like to see him…"
Sherlock reached the double doors before the doctor even turned around, pushing them to the side and striding down the hallway as if he has memorized exactly where the intensive care unit was. Which, knowing Sherlock, he probably had.
Lestrade followed the doctor as he followed Sherlock, turning a few corners and then pointing toward the room at the end of the hallway.
Sherlock was already there and walking through the door. Lestrade followed slowly, giving Sherlock a moment before he followed him in the room.
Sherlock was already seated at a chair next to John's bed, holding the doctor's hand in both of his and bowing his head toward the floor. John had an intubation tube down his throat and about fifty tubes and monitors attached to his body, but his heart rate was steady, and he seemed to be breathing at a normal rate.
Lestrade walked up behind Sherlock and squeezed his shoulder one more time before backing out of the room and calling for a police officer to come pick him up from the hospital. Now that he knew John would be all right, he knew he should leave Sherlock alone to work through whatever he needed to work through. And he had work to do.
…..
It had been a week since the shooting, and Sherlock was beginning to think John would never wake up. He hadn't left the hospital room even once since he was allowed to see John, having Mycroft bring him a couple changes of clothes and his shampoo so he could shower in the hospital room's bathroom. He didn't want to be away from John for longer than ten minutes in case the doctor woke up.
Just as he was about to about to call a doctor in to check on John, and possibly yell at said doctor about John not waking up yet, his friend's eyes cracked open for the first time. Which was promptly followed by him choking on the intubation tube and his heart rate skyrocketing to dangerous levels.
Sherlock screamed for a nurse and held John's hands down on the bed so he couldn't yank out the tube. The nurses came in lightning fast, and slowly pulled the tube out of John's throat and hooked him up to a normal oxygen tank. John choked and sputtered the whole time the nurses were taking care of him, but his heart rate decreased back to almost normal. Sherlock settled back in his chair and scrubbed a hand down his face.
As soon as the nurses left the room, John's eyes landed on Sherlock.
"Sherlock… what… what happened?" his voice was hoarse from the tube, and for not speaking for a week.
"You…" Sherlock trailed off and forced himself to look John in the eyes. "You got shot. A week ago."
John's eyes went wide. "Where's…"
"Mrs. Hudson has Rosie, she's perfectly fine." Sherlock took ahold of John's hand.
John, is this… did I do this to you? Is this how you felt when… after I… because when you crashed in the ambulance and I thought you were going to… I can't imagine what you went through thinking I was gone for two whole 
"Sherlock, look at me." Sherlock looked up, forcing tears back from his eyes. "I'm going to be fine, okay? I'm not dying." John gently squeezed Sherlock's hand, which was all the strength he could muster. "I forgave you for what happened a long time ago, Sherlock. It's all water under the bridge."
"No, I cannot accept your forgiveness, not after I've gone through this…. Absolutely unbelievable about of fear and heartbreak from only a few hours of thinking you 
die, I can't even imagine two years of 
you were… gone… God, John, I'm so… I'm so fucking sorry for what I did to you… I can't…"
"Sherlock, it's all right! Seriously, mate, I forgave you a long time ago."
"John…" Sherlock squeezed his friend's hand and looked back at the floor. "I don't think I quite realized until now how much I rely on you… I used to take you for granted, and now I've realized that I absolutely cannot live without you…" he looked up at John, his eyes swimming with tears that he couldn't seem to hold back.
"Sherlock…"
"Please, just let me finish." Sherlock cleared his throat. "John, you are… hands down, you are the most important person in my life... and the thought of losing you... God, I haven't felt fear like that since… possibly ever. I just… I need you to know that I love you, John, so much, and if you ever so much as trip over a curb for me again, let alone take another fucking bullet, I might lose my goddamn mind." Sherlock hastily wiped at his face with his free hand. "I love you so much, John." He looked down at the bed to avoid looking at his friend until he felt a hand gently take hold of his chin and tilt his face up.
"Sherlock, I wouldn't have taken a bullet for you if I didn't love you too. Of course I love you. You saved my life a long time ago, and… I saw the gun and I reacted, because I couldn't stand the thought of losing you either. Sherlock, I will never stop to think before taking a bullet for you or do anything else to save you. I would rather die than live without you, I think I made that quite clear."
"I wouldn't be able to live without you, John, never again. Please don't ever put yourself in danger for me, I don't think I could take it again."
"I'll only agree to be more careful with my life if you promise to do the same, Sherlock. A relationship like ours… it's a two-way street. I'll take better care of my life if you promise to do the same."
"Okay, I think I can make that promise." Sherlock stood from his chair, wiping at his face again. "Get some rest, John. I'm going to go phone everyone and let them know that you're all right."
"Okay, Sherlock, just… please don't go too far. I want… I need you to be here with me."
Sherlock leaned down and kissed John's hand and then his forehead, lingering for a moment and then gently lowering the doctor's hand back on the bed. "I promise I won't go anywhere, John, not ever again."
Sherlock stepped out of the room, phone to his ear, just as Lestrade ducked out of the doorway (where he'd been eavesdropping) and around the corner. He smiled and thought to himself, 
