The proof of the casserole (is in the parsley)
Sherlock had texted me, demanding I join him on a case, but that time, I had to decline. There were only so many sudden absences I could take from my office while still keeping a job. Ideally, that number would have in fact been none, and I suspected that I maintained my role in Sarah's clinic not just because she had some leftover fondness for me, but because Mycroft pulled a string or five. So long as I didn't know for certain, though, I didn't feel obliged to tell him to stop.
Coming home to a delicious smell wasn't what I expected, but it wasn't entirely out of the question. Mrs. Hudson, bless her, often "prepared too much". As if she wasn't a cook expert enough to adjust any recipe's ingredients from however many servings (too often it seemed to be exactly 3, and I'd never seen a book or website give these portions) down to one. Not that I would ever be mad enough to call her out. If she wanted to hold onto her pride, it was more than fine by me. The results were too delicious to risk them.
I followed my nose to the kitchen, wondering if Sherlock had already solved his case, or if I might finally make him understand that brainwork required food - at least some.
"Wow! She really overdid it, this time, huh?" I remarked, seeing three casseroles - each one of which could feed us for at least two meals - spread on the table. More odd was that they seemed to be all the same recipe: potatoes, dressed in...butter, if my nose didn't fail me, and generously sprinkled with parsley. Perhaps even a little too generously , but not so much as to ruin our kidneys, so I would keep my mouth shut about that. I was still surprised. Assuming she'd bought too many potatoes, and wanted to use them before they could go bad, surely Mrs. Hudson had other friends that would have welcome a culinary gift too?
Sherlock only hummed something, busy with - was that a ruler? Never mind. For once, nothing unpleasant was on the table, so I took a plate and a spoon, aiming for the nearest casserole.
"Stop!" The yell froze me in my tracks. Such warnings couldn't go unheeded in our house.
I groaned. "Did you dare to contaminate Mrs. Hudson's cooking? ...Ok, which one is safe?" If our landlady had felt compelled to cook over and over because Sherlock continued to ruin her offerings with something toxic, we would have some serious words later.
Sherlock snorted. "Seriously, John? I know that you're unobservant, but if you weren't so overwhelmed by your stomach, you would have known who's responsible for it."
One more attentive look around revealed that our oven was in use...at this point, I had to assume with more potatoes.
"You?"
"I don't see why you're so shocked, John. Following a recipe isn't exactly rocket science. "
I couldn't help the incredulous look on my face. " Ok, yes, it might not be above your talents, but - why? Since clearly it's not in order to eat?"
"For a case, of course."
"Of course. No, I don't see it. Why?" If someone had been poisoned or something, surely he could solve it without replicating the murder?
"If you'd come along, you would know." A timer sounded, Sherlock started measuring... Well, I wasn't entirely sure what, in each casserole, and then noted the results in a notebook.
"Fine, I apologise. But come on, Sherlock. Show off for me. "
"A disgustingly rich grandpa, who was a celebrated surgeon with way too many health practitioners in his extended family, was killed at a family reunion. That's what Christmas can get you. He wasn't feeling up to taking part in the dinner, possibly helped along by someone, we'll see what Molly says, and an injection of air finished him. Most people were at dinner themselves, and offer each other an alibi, if rather unhappily. I swear, I'd never seen so much reciprocal loathing in a family that wasn't mine before," he explained.
I chuckled. "I'd say you haven't seen enough families, but really? With all the crime scenes you've solved?"
"Really- hatred isn't loathing. Do you want to know about these or not?"
I nodded eagerly.
"The only two people who weren't under everyone else's watchful eyes, both had the knowledge to commit the crime, and the motive, just like all in that house. One said they had to rush out because their dog was barking like mad and they were worried about the pooch. Another said she was giving the last touch to this exact dish. The secret, she said, was to add a little bit of fresh parsley on top, besides the bits already amalgamated into the butter in advance."
"I see. No, actually I don't. Wouldn't it be easier to check the dog alibi rather than...whatever this is meant to do?"
"Everyone had been outside. Multiple times." Sherlock touched the bridge of his nose, as if just thinking about it made him feel a headache coming. "That's without counting the chaos a bored dog can cause, or the police invading the place afterwards. Not even I could deduce when footprints were left, within a five minute range. And no, Mycroft couldn't have, either."
I laughed. "I wasn't about to suggest that. Nor that you could drag him to the scene of any crime he hadn't committed."
Sherlock was too busy measuring again, but his lips quirked in a way that told me he'd have joined me in my chuckles otherwise.
"Surely though, such a fleeting act as the lady claimed could be impossible to prove, too?"
"They never got around to eating the potatoes. One of the kids decided to bring grandpa a plate - at five, he definitely has not the skill needed, and apparently hadn't yet learned the many reasons one might not like the old man. It was his favourite dish, so of course everyone should love it and be allowed to partake, too. His scream interrupted dinner. Otherwise you're right, we might as well have tossed a coin." Sherlock took more notes.
"Poor kid! Wonder if he'll ever eat any more of this recipe. But what are you measuring?"
"The depth of the parsley, obviously. Haven't you been watching me?" Sherlock sounded snappier than I expected.
"Yes...but it still doesn't make much sense."
"I've measured it on the actual crime scene, of course. The parsley will sink in the warm butter, deeper and deeper as time passes. Now, if there really was some extra parsley on the surface, and it wasn't all amalgamated from the start, I should be able to replicate how deep it sunk in the timeframe between the murder and my measurement."
"Oh." I sounded breathier than usual, maybe, but. Who else would have come up with such a solution? "The many casseroles are to avoid a statistical fluke, then?"
"I won't have a woman's freedom hanging on a single mistake, John. As much as I like puzzles, I have to be sure."
"I'm not saying you're not a genius, but - shouldn't you have the lady in question do the cooking, then? You know, even following the same recipe, there may be variables that you haven't accounted for. I'm not even sure what, but I do know that cooking is never quite the same..."
"Somehow I doubt that she'll be eager to invite us to dinner - and if she knew the point of the experiment, she might take some extra steps to change the result. No, this is the best I can do, given the circumstances. And don't worry, I won't contact Lestrade unless the results are clear enough, one way or another."
I'd never suspect him of forging results, and a look said as much. I was actually more offended that he'd assumed I would think so poorly of him. He didn't solve cases for clout, or to check them off a to-do list. He investigated because it was his vocation,and as such, any less than certain solution was totally useless to him.
"Just one last question: how long will it take until the first one you made can be sampled, and which one is it?"
"Ten minutes," Sherlock replied, nodding towards a different one than I'd tried to eat from.
I left him to his own devices then. I didn't want to risk a murderer escaping justice because I'd been a distraction. It was a wonder that the world's only consulting detective hadn't snapped at me more.
Ten minutes later, Sherlock ignored me when I served myself from the right casserole, and brought my plate to the sitting room, to avoid getting in his way. As much as I wanted to avoid being a nuisance, though, I couldn't help the loud moan (there really wasn't any different word for it) that I gave when I ate the first bite. Yes, perhaps there was slightly too much parsley. But it couldn't ruin the buttery goodness, or the delightful zing of lemon I'd just discovered.
Sherlock stormed into the living room. "Really?"
"Sorry," I replied, ducking my head, "hope I didn't startle you during a measurement".
"By a hair's breadth, but no," he huffed. "It's just...you're not usually this loud."
"I usually don't have my whole worldview upended," I retorted.
"What do you mean?" My friend sounded suddenly intrigued.
"I assumed you were incapable of cooking, at least without adding your own, toxic spin to it. Now that I've tasted this utter yumminess? I won't you get away with calling for delivery from Angelo's when it's your turn, be warned."
Sherlock's harrumph said what he thought of my ability to make him do anything, but he was blushing, so my praise had hit home. I do know my boy.
I did make a conscious effort to eat quietly after that, though.
About a hour later, Sherlock joined me again. "I suspected she might have lied, but it turns out that the parsley was indeed added last minute."
"Great. So, how are you going to present the case to Lestrade - besides with a casserole, I mean?" I asked.
"Do you think Gavin would appreciate part of the experiment, Jawn?"
"He might ask Molly to analyse it, just to double-check, but then again, it could be a good opportunity for him to make a move on her."
"Why would he?" Sherlock really had no right to look so adorably annoyed at the idea.
"Because he's been taken with Molly for more than a year?" I quipped back.
"I know that! But why would he need it tested once I'd explained the point to him?"
"Because you're the cook, and I've shared some nightmare tales. I know you told me what happened that Wednesday, for one but I only have your word on that... Anyway, how are you going to pin the dog bloke down? A jury might want more than exclusionary evidence. Did anyone else hear it bark?"
"They actually did, and heard it stop, and... You're the best conductor of light, John! I'll tell Lestrade to check if the man has one of these ultrasound whistles."
I couldn't help but smile. Not because I'd helped him now, but because I'd have expected him to come up with the idea at the crime scene. Clearly, something had disturbed him. Maybe I shouldn't assume so much, but the idea that my absence had frustrated him enough to hinder the investigation...well, anyone would have been proud of it.
"Well, since you're done, what do you think about tasting the fruit of your own labours before going over to Greg? The case is technically finished, after all..."
Instead of replying, Sherlock kissed me. And when we separated, breathless, he announced, "Done." He's lucky I love him, because that cheekiness wouldn't pass muster otherwise.
"You will get dinner at some point, love. If you want more than this, at least."
"You wouldn't!"
I just gave him a look. Yes, it might technically be blackmail, but I would. And probably I'd do it again if it worked.
"Help me pack?" he said, turning around. Either to show he wouldn't entertain my threats anymore or because he knows how to show off his assets, I'm not sure.
"Of course. Ours goes in the fridge, one to Lestrade, and we have another two...Plans for them?"
"I'm tempted to bring one to Mycroft. Just to ruin his diet."
I shrugged my agreement. Mycroft didn't actually need a diet, not that I would have told him that (sibling ribbing is not anyone else's business), but if he wanted to show off his many talents, I wouldn't stand in his way.
"And of course, one is for Mrs. Hudson. I accidentally prepared too much, after all." My grin answered his.
