The sky over London is, like so many days of the year overcast with heavy clouds, and the bare minimum of light that manages to shine through makes everything look even more tiered and grey.
It is a little cafe they meet in, just a moment away from St. Bart's Hospital and nothing special. People come and leave, taking with them a quick snack for lunch or just a warm coffee to go. It is quite tiny and crowded, and yet it is comforting.
"Please make it quick. I have to go back to work."
"I got you coffee." He says placing the cup in front of her while offering the weakest of smiles for a moment.
Molly looks away, turning her head to watch the crowd outside, all those people passing by.
"About what I asked you on the phone back then… I'm sorry." It is quick. Sherlock's words make her turn her head again and face him, face him even though she has avoided it for days. She does not reply, only takes a sip of the coffee, closing her eyes and taking a deep breath while placing the cup back on the table.
"I know. It was part of her game and you had to follow the rules. I get it, I really do." She says, but he can see that it is not okay yet. Nothing about this is okay or will ever be, because the game was not fair either. Of course it reached Molly later what happened in Sheringford, of course John tried to explain everything the best way possible, and of course he himself could do little to make things better. But he wanted to.
"Molly. Please listen. You're my friend. And I would never hurt you. I know the past says something different, but this has been true now for a while." Sherlock stops himself, because it is still not easy for him to say such things. He knows he is still not good at it.
For a while they just sit there in silence, Molly fumbling with the napkin that lies on the table. She wants to say something, but it all hurts too much, all this years seem to come back and cut her voice away. Somehow she wants to repeat in her head that he never cared, that he never cares, that all is just a game to him. But she can't do that, because she knows better. He does care in his way, and he would never hurt her. They are friends.
She sniffs for a moment, napkin still in hand ready for use if needed. It is now that she understands it. They are friends. And no matter how often she may wish it were different, no matter what she may tell herself at times, the honest truth- the real truth sounds more than nice.
Once again she sniffs, only this time accomplished with a chuckle. And then it turns into a smile, a real smile.
"No, really Sherlock. It is okay. You wanted to save me and that is what counts. Thank you." And the last two words are said through a smile and one of her hands searches his. She squeezes his hand and then quickly let's it go, returning to her coffee.
"You sure? Please don't think you do not matter."
"Of course I matter. Where else would you be able to do your experiments if I were not to give you corpses?" And this time they both smile real smiles.
"Hey, I got a new one today you might like. Was found under an old tree between the roots, but still not fully rotten away."
"Interesting. You know, maybe I may take a look. Not to eager to go home and probably find John there. Apparently little Rosie is getting her first teeth, and I'm not a fan of her current mood swings."
"Oh, but it's hurting them when they get them."
"Yes, and my ears too." And as he says that he rises and is already nearly at the door. She takes her still full cup and is about to follow him. Taking another longer sip warms her from inside and she feels good again.
