Sherlock straightened his jacket as he gave himself a quick once over in the mirror. He had the aubergine shirt on, her favourite, and it worked well with his dark, tailored suit. He had lost some weight in his time away. But he'd gained muscle, so he still cut a good figure (if not a better one). His curls were as unruly as ever, but hopefully, she'd still like them like that. He didn't know why he was so nervous; it was just a small gig in the city. He was just attending a small gig in the city … with Molly Hooper.
His stomach felt as though it was doing its best impression of the turbulent flight he'd had back to England some days before. He shouldn't have been so nervous, but the feelings that had been tingling beneath his skin while he was away were suddenly surfacing. He had realised in some dark, dingy foreign city, that Molly Hooper was more than just a colleague, more than a crucial part of his plan to fake his death. She was his 
. And the more he thought about her, the more he realised he wanted more than that. God, he wanted more of her. She had plagued his thoughts in the best way as he ripped apart Moriarty's network. His darkest moments were filled with the light the thought of Molly Hooper brings. He survived because of her; she had saved him.
Her face had lit up in the Barts locker room, and he had held her so tightly it would have been painful if she hadn't been holding him just as tight. Mycroft had pulled some strings to grant him access to the lab again upon his return, and pretty much immediately they were back to working together, moving together like a well-oiled machine. He made her laugh, and she made him coffee, quipping that it wasn't exactly a hard order to remember when he raised his eyebrow. It had been a week, and they had worked together every day. She always had something new for him. Oh, he knew what she was doing. She was occupying him until he was able to take cases again, giving him the run of experiments and multiple tissue samples and body parts to play with. It warmed his heart and he made sure to thank her at the end of every day, pressing a kiss to her cheek. He knew that cheek better than he knew his own.
On the fifth day, she had invited him to come to a gig with her. It was to see a small-time band; one he had discovered she liked while he stayed with her almost two years ago. She played their music constantly – while she cleaned, while she showered, while she cooked. She sang along too. That's how Sherlock discovered Molly Hooper had a wonderful voice. On his final night with her, she held him in her bed as soft tears rolled down his cheeks. He asked her to sing to him, her favourite song, and she did so while running her fingers through his hair, his head pressed against her chest. When he finally looked up at her, he noticed the tear tracks down her own face and smiled a sad smile. He held her face in his hands and pressed a kiss to her forehead.
"Come back." She whispered. "I don't care what you have to do, but come home, Sherlock. You have to come home."
He couldn't answer. Her breath was hot and wet against his face. The pull he felt between them became impossible to ignore.
Then, for a moment, the world went still.
Then, for a moment, their lips almost touched.
He felt her eyelashes flutter against his skin, he felt her head tilt in his hands. He felt his pulse quicken and his nerves tingle. He felt his heart burst through the carefully built walls around it.
Then, he stopped. He pulled back. He rebuilt.
"I have to go."
He kissed her cheek, then he crawled from her arms and left her bedroom, catching a glimpse of her crying form before closing the door, wiping his wet cheeks, and disappearing into the night.
He had regretted that night for the last two years. How they didn't, but they 
 did. It was one of the only things he could think about. But tonight, tonight he would make things better. Tonight, he wouldn't pull away.
The venue was small, intimate. It was quite barn-like in its features with bare wooden beams and a semblance of fairy lights strung across them. The stage was small but visible from all areas of the room and the stage lights only added to the ambience. Sherlock found he now took time to appreciate these things, instead of dismissing them as he used to. If there was one thing he had learnt whilst being dead and alone, it was that you have to live in your moments fully. 
 had to live in his moments fully, so he could store every detail of nights like this in his mind palace. Being unable to recall precious moments with Molly, his parents, good times with John, and even bantering with his brother had been more than painful in his lonely moments. The inability to comfort himself with memories often left him feeling cold and adrift in the middle of nowhere. He vowed he would never feel like that again.
He was leaning against the small bar area with the intention of buying Molly and himself a drink when he spotted her across the room. She looked radiant, smiling from ear to ear and clad in flattering skinny jeans and a typically Molly jumper. Her hair was loose around her shoulders and her hand was safely enclosed in another man's hand. 
 Another man's hand. Another man, holding his Molly's hand …
"Sherlock, hey!"
Molly's voice snapped him out of his shock, but his heart didn't stop its descent to his feet.
"Molly."
"Sherlock," she touched his arm, fireworks erupted beneath her fingers, "I'd like you to meet Tom. Tom, this is Sherlock Holmes."
"Pleasure to meet you, Sherlock. Molly here has told me all about you, it's good to have you back in the land of the living."
 extended his hand toward Sherlock as he joked, but he did not take it. His eyes stared at it before moving to sweep over the man's form. Molly removed her hand from his arm to pull Tom's back to their sides, she didn't let go of it.
"He's, erm, he's not the biggest fan of physical touch."
She tried to smile, to laugh it off but when Sherlock looked at her, he saw the worry in her eyes. She was waiting for the deductions. Waiting for the scathing comments to roll off his tongue. She was waiting for him to eviscerate her date, as he had done many times before. He wouldn't. She didn't deserve it. He had caused her enough grief already.
So, he smiled. Nodded. Asked Molly if she'd like a drink.
His mind whirled with confusion, she hadn't mentioned this Tom. She hadn't mentioned anything. He thought it was going to be just them. Just Sherlock and Molly, and now there was Tom. Happy, smiling Tom who had his arm around Molly's shoulders as they ordered drinks. He looked somewhat similar to Sherlock, but Molly did have a type for the dark, tall and brooding. Was Tom brooding too? Was he brooding enough for Molly?
Tom bought the round. Because of course he did. He passed Sherlock his pint before brushing Molly off when she offered to carry her own. She smiled in thanks and looked at Sherlock, inviting him with her eyes as Tom headed into the crowd of people by the stage, two drinks in his hands.
Sherlock didn't do it on purpose, but his hand fell to the small of Molly's back as they weaved through the people. She was warm beneath his hand, she was 
, and it stung to know she wasn't there for him. With him, but not 
 him, regardless of how much he wanted her to be. They reached where Tom had stopped and Sherlock saw his gaze flick to his hand on Molly, saw something flash behind his eyes but it was gone before he could identify it.
Molly took her drink just as the lights went down and the band came on.
Molly would be the first to admit to anyone 
 the men in her presence that she was filled with nerves about tonight. For more than one reason.
She knew Sherlock was going to be standoffish with Tom. He was Sherlock, that was inevitable. But she also knew she should have told him about Tom before the gig, arguably she should have told him the day he got back. But she had missed him so dearly, and she didn't want to spoil the warmth he was showing her while they worked away together. He was different, there was no doubting that. He was kind and attentive and took to letting his fingers brush hers whenever she gave him something. There was a spark in his eyes and her heart had ached for that moment in which they didn't, but they almost did so long ago now.
She could have waited for him, probably should have. But it had been nearly two years with no word from him at all, and when Tom approached her as she nursed a drink in her local bar, she let him flirt. And she flirted back. And now here they were, months into whatever this was with Tom starting to talk about babies and houses and marriage. Well, he had been until a week ago. But a week ago was when everything changed.
She shook her shoulders and forced herself not to dwell on it. Regardless of the week that had passed, she was here to see one of her favourite bands with her best friend and her boyfriend.
Yep, she was definitely nervous.
She looked between them then. Tom had his hand in hers but didn't seem to notice her distress. Sherlock's eyes were on her though, she felt them before she even looked at him. His eyebrows drew together in concern, almost imperceptibly but she knew him, so she saw it. She shook her head and smiled before turning her head to the band on the stage.
He tried not to, but Sherlock watched Molly more than he watched the stage. Her face would light up with recognition by the second or third bar of each song, and she would sway to the rhythms, mime the words. She looked like she was having a good time, apart from the tension in her shoulders. That was one of Molly Hooper's tells, her shoulders always gave her away.
He fought the sudden urge to put his hands on them, to release that tension with his fingers.
Tom seemed oblivious. He would simply smile when Molly excitedly reacted to each song and sip his beer. He clearly didn't know any of the music. He was here out of obligation, protection. Possession. Was that what Sherlock had seen in his eyes earlier? Was 
 here to stake his claim on Molly?
He tried not to stare, he really did. But Tom shuffled under Sherlock's scrutiny and mumbled something about getting another round before swallowing the last dregs of his pint and turning to head towards the bar. Molly smiled and nodded, her hand falling limply to her side when he dropped it. As her eyes shifted to Sherlock, he whipped his head back to the stage, beginning to mime the words as he pretended he hadn't been watching, he hadn't been observing. He felt her smile though, it spread warmth in him the same way her hand tugging on his sleeve for his attention did.
"I didn't know you knew this stuff."
She laughed, he didn't.
"Of course I do, Molly."
"Oh."
"I lived with you, remember? You played this non-stop."
She blushed, he felt it in his stomach.
"I wouldn't say 
…"
She trailed off into more (glorious) laughter at his incredulous expression.
"Okay, okay," she raised her hands in defeat, "I did play them a lot."
The song had ended while they were talking, her volume increasing slightly over the cheers that came predictably after every song. There was a moment of just smiles, and then their song started playing.
Well, not 
 song. But her favourite. The one she sang for him that night.
He knew she was remembering it too as that becoming blush spread up her cheeks once more. Without words, he reached for her hand. She squeezed it without taking her eyes from his. There was a current passing between them, Sherlock could feel it buzzing under his skin. It was almost as strong as her pulse below his fingers.
The chorus kicked in and he watched her eyes blur with tears, watched as one rolled its way down her soft cheek. That cheek he liked to kiss. He stopped himself from kissing it away. Instead, he lifted their joined hands, spinning her around and causing a watery giggle to bubble up out of her, out of himself. He spun her again and wrapped her into his body, taking their hands to his chest and resting his palm on that warm patch of her back again. Hers came to rest on his bicep and the space between them seemed to disappear. They swayed with the music, smiling up at each other and singing along, trying their best to laugh instead of cry.
It was a cough from Tom that broke the moment.
Molly pulled away, eyes turned downwards and her hands brushing off imaginary dust from her jeans. She pushed her hair behind her ear and took her drink from Tom, mumbling a thank you that was almost too quiet to hear.
There was no drink for Sherlock in the man's hand. He took the message for what it was.
"I have to go."
He patted his pockets awkwardly, checking for his phone and keys. It felt as typically and ridiculously British as saying 'right' and slapping one's knees.
Molly took two steps after him as he walked away.
"Sherlock, wait-"
He looked back at her. He didn't think he could hide the sadness in his eyes if he tried, so he didn't. It was selfish, but it was all he could do.
"I've had a lovely time, Molly. Thank you." His eyes flicked to Tom. "Enjoy the rest of your night."
Molly started to speak again but Sherlock was already walking away.
The night air was cold as it hit his face, she shoved his hands in his pockets and kept his head down. He didn't want to be recognised like this, who knows what the press would do if they found out Sherlock Holmes could 
.
His chest was tight and there was a ringing in his ears he couldn't shake. It whispered of his regret, his embarrassment, his time lost, his feelings. It was so loud he didn't hear her the first time. Or the second. But then-
"Sherlock!"
He turned to find Molly Hooper coming towards him. His mind dissembled for a moment before he looked around and noticed a car pulling away from the venue in the opposite direction. Molly was in front of him now, catching her breath and looking rather bashful.
"You should get back to your date, Molly."
"Sherlock-"
"Molly."
She sighed.
"Please, Sherlock. Can we just talk?"
He stayed silent, she seemed to take that as an invitation.
"I'm sorry for springing Tom on you like that. I should have told you before."
"Yes."
She was wringing her hands. Her shoulders were even tighter than before.
"He's not normally like that, he's- well, he's nice-"
Sherlock raised a hand, cutting her off. His stomach lurched with the thought of hearing more about the man to whom he had lost his Molly.
"Spare me the details, Molly."
She looked hurt. She thought he'd be interested. And he was, only he was interested in 
. Not in hearing about 
.
"Right, sorry, I-"
It was fizzing inside him. The feeling he had been trying to fight off. The jealousy. The loss. The hurt. He felt close to bursting.
"Molly."
"It's not that-"
"Molly!"
His raised voice startled her, and he almost reached for her as she took a step back.
She didn't speak. Her eyes were glassy. It seemed her emotions were just as heightened as his right now.
"I'm sorry. I didn't mean to shout. I just-" he sighed. His shoulders slumped. He ran his hands through his hair.
Molly stepped forward; her hand found his arm again. It almost hurt. The look in her eyes made it difficult to breathe. She looked so concerned, so full of 
 for him.
"Sherlock, just talk to me."
"I don't want to, Molly." She went to pull back, but his hand covered hers on his arm, pinning her in place. "I don't want to talk about it because then … I just want you to be happy."
That was true, at least.
Her hand slid down his arm until it held his. Her eyes roamed his features, the honey brown darkened by the night but lit with concern. She was doing that thing again, 
He felt naked under her gaze, but he was done hiding from her. Done hiding from his emotions. Even if it did make him jealous and selfish. He had been called worse.
"Oh, Sherlock."
"I'm sorry, Molly. I just can't bear to listen to how you met him, who he is, or what he wants. I don't want to talk about it because if we talk about it, I can't dance around this anymore. If we talk about it, you'll see that I don't know what to do with …"
"With what?"
Her voice was soft, soothing. There was no reproach. No hesitation. Just Molly, listening.
He sighed. All in, he supposed. Living his moments fully.
"With my feelings, Molly. With my feelings … for you."
"Sherlock-"
He didn't register her squeezing his hand.
"I thought it was going to be me, Molly. The man escorting you tonight. The man you gave your affection to."
He cradled her cheek, he didn't miss her eyes closing or her face turning into his palm.
"My biggest regret is pulling away from you that night. I thought of it while I was away, I thought of you. Of us." He stroked that cheek with his thumb, brushing away an errant tear. "It's my own fault, Molly, but in my head … in my head, I'm yours."
A sob left her body, shaking those tense shoulders.
"I know this is selfish and sudden, and wrong. I know I have no right, no claim to you. You're with Tom and-"
"Was."
It was a whisper, the wind alone carried it to his ear.
"What?"
She cupped the hand on her face with her own before bringing it down to their sides, both of his hands were now encased within hers. He felt warm. Safe. Selfish.
"That was his car. He just left. He- he has been off since you came back. We've been off. It's my fault. He didn't like that I'd lied to him about you being dead. I told him where he could stick that, of course. But he certainly didn't like how much time I've spent with you over the last week and apparently, tonight was the last straw."
He looked confused and she smiled, laughed a little at his obliviousness.
"Sherlock, I've been at work every single day this week."
"Yes?"
"I work shifts, Sherlock. I don't work seven days a week."
Realisation dawned on him. Of course she didn't work 12-hour days seven days in a row. She was doing it for him. He vaguely remembered other pathologists coming in. He remembered the three days they never went into the morgue, the days she didn't go to her office to write up autopsy reports because she hadn't done any. Because, technically, she wasn't working. She was just experimenting with him, in the lab. Occupying him, entertaining him. Spending time with him. Not 
.
"Ahh."
"Yeah, he wasn't too happy about it. He also wasn't the biggest fan of what he saw tonight, apparently." She had looked down, playing with her hands, and when she looked up again Sherlock couldn't help but smile at the twinkle in her honey-brown eyes. "It seems we have an air of 'almost' surrounding us."
Despite it all, they laughed. Because they knew it was true.
"I suppose we do, don't we?"
He pried his hands from hers then, snaking one around her waist and pulling her to him while the other fanned into her hair and tilted her head up to his own. He relished the gasp that escaped her.
"How about we fix that?"
The moment his lips landed softly on hers, the world went still. And this time, he didn't stop. He didn't pull back. And he didn't rebuild. As her lips moved artfully against his own, he let his walls tumble to the ground, taking his doubts and fears with them. He let her in, welcoming her with open arms, and nothing had ever felt more right.
They were breathless when Molly finally released him from her enchanting kiss, he stayed close though, resting his forehead on hers.
"That was-"
"The only thing I've been thinking about doing for the last week. Hell, the last two years."
"Well, I'm glad you finally did."
He took a deep breath. He kissed her again, just because he could. And because the warmth he felt radiating from her when he did fortified his every thought, his every whirlwind emotion. Kissing her gave him the courage he needed to 
To just be with her. No walls, no offhand comments, no deflections. Just him and Molly Hooper.
Molly could practically feel the cogs turning in his great big brain.
"What is it?"
He pulled away just enough to look into her eyes.
"I think that I love you, Molly Hooper." Her eyes filled with unshed tears again. "No. No, I don't think. I know." He kissed her forehead before making her catch his eyes once more. "I love you, Molly. I think part of me always has."
"I love you too, Sherlock." She reached up to stroke his chiselled cheek. "In my head, and in my heart, it's always been you."
The smiles they shared filled the other with love and light from head to toe. They practically burned with happiness as Sherlock raised his arm to call an incoming cab. Molly's cheeks ached from smiling by the time she rested her head on his shoulder in the back seat, listening gleefully as he reeled off a familiar address.
"221B Baker Street, please." He looked down at Molly, her soft hair tickling his shoulder and her arm looped in his. "As fast as you can, we've got some lost time to make up for."
