Vice Versa
Sherlock has always been observant. He has, in fact, created a career out of it. Of course, observing wouldn't go anywhere without the accumulated knowledge, and a great part of it is being aware of patterns and how they change people or objects. How could he recognize a person's job from their hands otherwise? Or anything else?
Sudden changes need investigating, of course. And when his flatmate, John "I'm not gay" Watson suddenly, and seemingly without any inciting incident, stops correcting people who assume they're a couple (that is a habit that stands, because people are blind unless yelled at), well. It's a mystery. How nice of John to offer him one right at home.
Sherlock considers all possibilities. Harry's influence, but she didn't call, text or mail - John would have no reason to delete it completely, and possibly not even the ability. Illness, but his throat is perfectly right, and there's no reason for him to spare his breath otherwise. Besides, it would be a very random subject to pick to avoid stressing his voice. A bet or dare - John is weak against such things - but who would make such a demand? And why?
Of course, it could be that John got bored of his complaints and created an enigma for its own sake. That would be cheating, though. How is he supposed to deduce the correct option if it's a random choice? Chance is part of life - a huge one, even - but it's lethal when inserted into a line of reasoning. Then again, the only other option is predestination, which Mycroft would probably be enthusiastic about. That should be enough to indicate that it would be a total nightmare in reality.
If clues from the scene(s) aren't enough. though...interrogating suspects is something he always does. There's no reason he might not do the same with John.
He waits until they're back at Angelo's, that night, with a candle shining bright between them. Sure, in this specific instance John might have just caved, realising that no amount of protest would ever stick in the man's ears. But there are enough strangers who might be receptive to amending themselves still making the same old assumption, and John has stopped objecting to these too.
"It's nice to see you so much more confident in your sexuality, John," he rumbles.
Saying the wrong thing to give someone the urge to correct it. It's odd how he hasn't actually considered that this might be the truth.
He'll know now. There's no way John will resist illuminating him. And he does, just... Not with the sentence that he ever thought might have come from his friend - and politeness enforcer -'s mouth. "Actually, it's an experiment."
"Oh." That is...certainly fair, but he can see why John would be annoyed when on the other end. "Since you revealed that, it must be finished. Otherwise, as a test subject, I should still be kept in the dark. Can I know what it was about?"
"A very curious exception to a pattern of yours," John says, smiling, and Sherlock is almost tempted to laugh, because. That's what this has been about all along.
"You always, always correct people's mistakes. Grammar, wrong word, wrong deduction - it doesn't matter how big or small it might be. You'll set them straight. But you never did it when people assumed we were a couple. The most probable option, of course, was that you knew I would, so there was no need to repeat my words. That'd be boring in the extreme, I get it. So I stopped, and I wondered if you would have picked up the slack. It turns out that the answer is no."
"I was distracted!" He didn't mean to be so loud, but then again. Nothing changed. And Sherlock isn't masochist enough to blurt out what he'd slowly started to understand when there is no hope.
"Oh." John sounds just as disappointed as Sherlock felt a moment ago. "By what?"
"The conundrum of the clammed-up companion. I know, it's a worse title than any of yours,...as of yet."
John laughs, and Sherlock joins him, stress waning. "Is this a challenge?"
"Absolutely not! I know you'd win."
"Ohi!" Friendly ribbing, yes, this is lovely. They can put the experiment behind them, with all the others.
At least that was Sherlock's plan. But this has been John's game, from the start.
The man takes a sip of the wine in front of him, swallows at least once too often for the quantity he's imbibed, and then says, "You know, it's kind of a pity that this makes my experiment inconclusive. And now that you know, it'd be useless to repeat it. Maybe I should just ask, huh?"
"Really, John, you've grown fixated on a meaningless detail..." He's not panicking. He's not. Besides, John himself gave him a perfect excuse for before, and he's justified himself about now. John always misses everything of importance on a case. Why has he suddenly grown so keen-eyed?
"Never thought I'd hear those last two words from you, and in that order." John grins at him.
"I'll shoot - and just delete it if I'm wrong. That detail, and - okay, a few more, got me thinking that... I'm part of your work now, right?"
"Obviously, so?" Sherlock huffs. Is John drunk?
"So you shot me down because you were married to your work." John shrugs.
"And you're not gay." The detective rolls his eyes. "I don't have Alzheimer's, John."
"Not gay. Always not gay, because you'd deduce if I was lying by my pupils or something else. Bi. " The little smile that accompanies that does things to Sherlock's heart, and...other parts.
He giggles, feeling suddenly high. "John Watson, are you asking me to marry you?"
John grins at him. "If you want. I was planning on having a bit of a trial before - see how you like the whole Watson package - but , well...it wouldn't be the first time we rushed into things."
Sherlock kisses him. Obviously.
