Etology is confusing
John didn't intend to be just another Anderson, ta very much. So he did his research. He learned that, while female cheetahs are infamous for being independent, and claiming a vast territory as their own, a singleton male rarely survives. Now, mostly, they stick to family. A few siblings will live together and help each other out. Now, sure, this is true for the actual animals; but the shifter population, human as they might be, still maintain many of their soul-creature traits.
It's not that John assumes that Sherlock would die left to his own devices (even if sometimes he wonders). It's just surprising how he's always special, not only as a person, but compared to his own species, too. Of course Mycroft worries about him. And what about Mycroft himself? Has he replaced his sibling's (oh god, hopefully there are no more of them) support with the whole British government? That – actually sounds about right.
When Sherlock found him deep into a page about that, he snorted, "Yes, I am the black...technically not sheep of the family, John. But how can anyone stand Mycroft's continuous involvement in their lives, I don't know. Being taken down sounds like a much better option."
"That's not happening," John instinctively growled. Since then, he figured out that his role was clear. Even if – because, more likely – he didn't let Mycroft buy him out, he'd actually replaced him as Sherlock's honorary brother. True, he wasn't a feline of any kind, but wolf packs were family-based too, and with the disintegration of his own, well, maybe it was destiny.
If he wanted more...Sherlock was married to his work, and John wasn't about to risk his newfound equilibrium. Besides, there was always one girl or another available if he got an itch. Sure, they never worked out. But these girls didn't even realise that John wasn't a meek dog, so why would he expect them to? Faking long-term was really more trouble than it was worth. He had Sherlock at home, their cases, his own work (someone had to at least act normal), his hook-up of the week... Things weren't perfect, but they were stable. In the way a reaction who's still ongoing can be stable. No explosion yet – ok, yes, the occasional explosion, but nothing irrimediable. Not where it counted.
And then a couple of cases came along. The first – you'd think that the main thing John remembered from it was being used as a guinea pig, again. When dealing with near-lethal drugs, too (near only in their instance, to boot).. Sherlock, to double-check the murder method, had been yet another test subject, assuming that a few switched details and his own resistance to drugs would keep them mostly safe...
It turned out that he was wrong, but even out of his own fucking mind, John had shifted, grabbed a struggling Sherlock by the scruff of his neck, which placated him, and dragged him outside like the crazy cub he sometimes was. And yes, of course John would never forget laying in the snow and panting to get his bearings back, lungs filling with incontaminated air.
But he didn't expect the consulting detective to claim failure when they'd figured everything out, simply because the murder method itself had been stolen, and the husband of the original victim had paid the murderer back in kind. Payback is a bitch, as they say. In this case, the ghost of a gasping, driven insane collie-shifter.
Sherlock had shrugged. "If someone did that to my mate, I'd do the same. It's not my fault if the local police has less brain than a single dormouse...during hibernation." John wasn't about to object to that.
And then, Lestrade had come with another case. He'd received info about a dangerous American criminal who'd sommewhat managed to arrive and was hiding somewhere. They needed to find him, and hopefully pack him back, before he managed to do whatever he might be planning here. Someone with the nickname Killer? John wasn't sure what the man was up to, but he'd bet it didn't involve visiting an ailing aunt.
Of course Sherlock sniffed him out. Weirdly, John might have half-lost that bet if he had taken it. Evans was definitely planning a crime...but he'd swapped identity with someone he used to know, and was bunking with the old, slightly batty grand-uncle of the man.
As soon as they figured it out, they informed Lestrade. And then, instead of either sitting back and having tea or waiting to join him during an official capture, Sherlock said, "Our man's host might need a doctor."
John nodded. When Lestrade arrived, unless he was quick, he'd find Evans all ready to be shipped out. That was the plan, at least.
Then he got shot. Really, he should have expected it, but the time when some people's first reaction was shooting at him was years in the past. You usually needed the situation to escalate a bit during cases. And by then, John was usually ready to outshoot anyone. He yelped, loudly, leaning heavily against the wall, eyes falling closed for an instant to control the pain.
When he opened them again, the gun was clattering on the floor, and Evans was a pancake, covered by a deeply growling black cloud of doom, teeth right at the (still) man's throat.
"Sherlock! Sherlock, I'm fine!" he yelled.
"John?" The cheetah's mouth moved slightly away from the neck of his potential victim, but he kept pinning it down.
"Just a graze, I promise. Look, I'm coming to help, ok?"
Evans was understandably subdued when John cuffed him (IDs weren't the only thing they pilfered from Greg) and downright enthusiatic when Lestrade finally arrived. The DI opted to avoid remarking about it.
Properly patched up and back home, John wondered aloud, "The file Lestrade had mentioned that Evans was a bear shifter. Why wouldn't he try to fight you off?"
"He must have forged his own info. I can assure you, that man was a hare, and he didn't need to look any more like dinner than he already did."
They giggled together.
Feeling high (perhaps literally, just a tidbit), John took his chance. "Can I make a deduction?"
"Feel free." Sherlock smiled.
"You don't see me as a brother."
Sherlock huffed. "Really, John? What made you suspect I might loathe you that much?"
"Let me finish...Things might have changed, so I'm going to ask again. Do you have a boyfriend?"
"Seriously? Even if I disparaged your deduction, you aren't so blind that you wouldn't have noticed it. Or smelled it." Sherlock rolled his eyes.
"Want one?" John grinned.
"Don't joke." The glare that accompanied that would have scared lesser men.
"I'm not! Just answer."
"I don't share."
"Me neither, so?"
"Yes." Sherlock pounced again, for the second time that night. It was brilliant.
