xxDustNight88 came up with the idea to write 28 drabbles inspired by fluffy, romantic prompts that she found for the month of February 2023. After consulting with her and opting not to give my muse - who has been on vacation - a choice in the matter, we talked about me writing a series of break-up drabbles. We all know that life isn't all fluff and romance, so I wanted to support the heartbreak that sometimes happens, especially this time of year. dumplingsjinson compiled a list of prompts meant to inspire "it's not you, it's me" scenarios between characters and posted it to Tumblr.
Once I found the list of prompts that I liked, I reached out to people who follow me on social media as members of my fanfiction Facebook group, followers of my fanfiction page on Facebook, followers of my fanfiction Instagram, Tumblr followers, and people on one of the discord servers I'm a member of to prompt me potential pairings for which prompt they would like to see written.
So, you will see many fandoms if you follow this series on Ao3 from now until the end of the month. There will be some days with multiple stories posted so I can use all of the prompts I found - if the muse decides to cooperate. Or if you just find yourself here for one of the stories because it falls into a fandom or pairing that you enjoy reading. I will apologize in advance for any heartbreak you may find because I have broken my heart many times while writing the stories for this series on Ao3. If you are following me on FanFiction, you will see the stories as individual stories posted throughout the month with the name Falling Starrs before the title of the actual story.
According to Urban Dictionary, a breakup is defined as "when two people have to let each other go. Despite the fact that one of them loves the other one truly. The girl or the guy in your case, decides that the two of you are not compatible for each other. Hopefully the two of the people can remain friends, though that is hard for guys to do, because we hold on. But always remember, there are more than six billion people on this planet. So though you may not want to hear it, the chances of this person being the one, are less than winning the lottery. I know it's tough but you have to move on after a break up.."
I hope you enjoy this heartbreaking adventure that we are about to embark on!
Happy reading!
Love always,
~starr
The dull glow of candlelight was just enough for Spencer to make her way through the guest house in the early morning light. She made her way into the kitchen and set to work preparing a pot of coffee. Spencer could see the time - she'd be the only one up for several hours alone in her thoughts.
Yawning, she stretched her arms over her head and let out a moan as she stretched her back. The dribble of the coffee into the pot was music to her ears. A smile pulled at her lips as the aroma filled the air.
"Why are you up so early?" Hanna's sleepy voice called, forcing Spencer to turn and notice her leaning up against the doorway of the kitchen. She wiped away the sleep from her eyes as she pushed away from the doorway and approached Spencer.
Hanna wrapped her arms around Spencer's waist and nuzzled her head into the crook of her neck, letting out a sigh as she settled in. Spencer glanced at her out of the corner of her eye and furrowed her brow.
"Hanna, what are you doing?" Spencer asked, pushing her away with a sigh.
"Cuddling up to you?" Hanna replied, furrowing her brow as she took a step back, wrapping her atoms around her waist. "I just thought-"
"Thought what?" Spencer asked, her tone a bit harsher than she had intended.
"After last night," Hanna said, rubbing a hand over her elbow. "The fire and that kiss."
"You're forgetting one thing," Spencer hissed, shaking her head. "The wine, and it was a one-time thing - nothing more."
Hanna rolled her eyes and let out a sigh, shaking her head. She opened her mouth to say something, but Spencer cut her off before she got the chance.
"Let's end this before we hurt each other even further," Spencer said, crossing her arms over her chest as she looked Hanna up and down. She noticed the faint trace of a smile on Hanna's lips. "Damn it, Han."
"I'm fine," Hanna replied, holding a hand in the air to stop Spencer in her tracks. "I get it - that kiss didn't mean anything to you, and I'm sorry I even brought it up."
Hanna took a deep breath, scrubbing her hands over her face. She could feel the tears starting to well up in the corners of her eyes, and the last thing she wanted to do was start crying in front of her friend. She closed her eyes, pinching them shut tight to stop the tears in their tracks. Hanna turned on her heel and made her way back to the door.
"Han, wait," Spencer replied, resting her hands on her hips as she took a deep breath and exhaled slowly. "I just think we are better off as friends. Last night shouldn't have happened. Not like that."
Hanna laughed, nodding her head slowly. "Of course not," she said, refusing to turn back to look at Spencer. "Consider it forgotten. Your reputation is safe, Spencer; you don't have to worry about me spilling your little secret."
Without another word, Hanna stormed out of the kitchen and made her way down the hall to one of the bedrooms. Spencer cringed when she heard the door slam behind Hanna, and she let out a sigh. That would certainly wake the others up.
