Molly Hooper had slapped Sherlock Holmes three times in her life. All three of them, because he wasn't clean. Sometimes, she knew why he indulged in it- "It's for a case, Molly!"- but she didn't want him to.
But it made her angry and frustrated nonetheless. The slaps were unsolicited, she was only supposed to play her part in being outwardly angry and declaring that Sherlock was back to his vice. Instead, she'd gone and stung his cheeks red. He was a colossal asshole in the moment, but he took her to eat chips and didn't mention it ever after.
Molly wrung her hands out of anxious habit, and finished drinking her wine. She left the glass on the counter, forgotten till a few hours into the night when the wine would temporarily stain the glass (and maybe her lips) red. It would be the mundane routine of life perhaps, that whispered to her, and told her to seek him out this lazy Sunday afternoon. Either that, or she was a complete idiot who didn't understand what's best for her. But she grabbed her coat and hailed a taxi anyway; her destination was Baker Street.
...
Her pencil scratched across the drawing paper as the lamp flickered in the dark. The black cat on her lap swatted at the brown moth exploring the edges of her table, and occasionally, Molly would glance out her window to sigh at the twinkling stars above her cottage.
Finally, with a strong gush of wind, the lamp went out, and she had to get up (annoying her cat in the process) to light it again.
Molly walked into the center of the room, the uneven wooden floors creaking under her bare feet, and looked at the marble statue she had been sculpting that stood in the middle of her house. It wasn't complete, yet. Even someone with her expertise couldn't finish a life-size statue that easily. Her hands, the forest-folk would often say, had magic in them. She carved and drew and played gracefully. The papers sitting on her table right now were evidence enough.
Curiously, all of them, as of late, featured a single man. The object of her creative attentions, as could be seen, was of an angular and lean build, with dark curls and intense eyes. Some sketches featured him wearing clothes, while others depicted him as partially or entirely naked.
...
Molly stepped out of the vehicle, paid the cabbie, and stood before the door of 221B. She let out a long breath she didn't know she'd been holding in, and knocked thrice.
Mrs. Hudson let her in, as she always did whenever Molly dropped by for a visit, and informed her that Sherlock had been in something of a mood lately, that Molly should be careful lest he deduce the living daylights out of her, and that he had told her not to let people in. But Molly wanted to see him anyway (she had brought his lab samples along) and decided going against his express orders was worth the risk.
She took her time climbing the stairs, soaking in the complete silence of the corridor. The door was open, and when she peeked inside she could see a generous coating of dust layering the apartment. Sherlock didn't really bother to dust the place much since John moved. He wasn't to be seen in the living room, so she made her way to his room, where she saw him laying on his side, facing the other way.
She called his name, twice. He ignored her, twice.
Or at least seemed to, until she went nearer and realized that he was unconscious, with a needle lying by his side, and a small transparent glass bottle at the side of the bed.
...
They were all drafts for the statue. She tilted her head and stared at the soft white marble bust with intent, as if looking at it would make it grab her tools and carve itself in front of her eyes. Her stomach growled.
She hadn't had a bath in days, and neither had she fed herself properly these past few weeks. All she could think of was finishing his statue. Her ideal man. She didn't know (or care) when the afternoon turned into night, or when birdsong faded away, and the owls began their chanting. The only living creatures she'd interacted with for a week were the cat, and (rarely) her neighbors.
It almost felt a little reclusive to her, being so dedicated to carving a statue. But it also felt...meditative, as if she were gaining a semblance of inner satisfaction with every part of him she brought to perfection, every particle of white dust she shed to the ground, every time she touched his cold, hard face with her fingers.
...
She willed for him to show her a sign of life, anything that would even remotely signal a pulse, anything that would put an end to this game he'd been playing with her feelings.
Molly always was a sensitive thing, but somehow, this time, her eyes didn't tear up. The knot in her stomach that made itself known whenever she saw him was still there, though. She kneeled beside him, and pushed aside one stray lock of hair from his face. His vice caused everyone pain. She herself had a few, but none so addictive as drugs. There were so many people she had dissected that had died of overdoses, and each time she couldn't help thinking that one day she would see him there on her slab, his long, pale body laid out.
She focussed on him, now. His lips were slightly blue, and his eyes were dilated and bloodshot (it reminded her of a massacre in a bluish-green sea) when she opened one eyelid tentatively, but there was still something she could do. She got up, and walked out of the room.
After a few minutes of scouring the flat for naloxone, she stood in front of him with the injection, and administered it. Her hands would not shake.
...
Her wooden stool shifted several times as she bent in awkward angles to carve his chest, and when she was satisfied with that part (somewhat satisfied, since her true artistic nature would never in her life let her be satisfied by her work), she stood on the stool and moved on to better his shoulders.
When she started making him, she had already decided he would wear a cloth draped around his waist. She was not embarrassed by the male form, but simply liked the challenge of carving the delicate, flowing material around his curves.
His nimble fingers she made delicately, paying attention to each nail and knuckle. She imagined what they would feel like holding her own small hands, and it infused a warmth in her, something similar to what she felt when she woke up at the crack of dawn and stood along the shore to admire the endless ocean and listen to the baying of the gulls.
...
She didn't leave his side, nor did she hold him as he showed signs of recovery, but something in her was brave enough to grasp his hand. He let out a small sound, almost inaudible if not for the fact that her mind was in sync with his every breath.
When Sherlock once shared lunch with her in the hospital cafeteria, he had told her not to worry about him. He always told her not to worry about him. It was only ever conveyed once in words, and every other time through his eyes and actions. She did know that he could care for himself. He was smart enough to. But she kept worrying, and he kept giving her things to worry about.
Yes, she had to admit that he somehow still remained as spritely and energetic as ever on a case (she had no idea how he remained strong on a diet of so little) but it still made her think.
She sat there, sighing and thinking and looking at him.
...
He was almost finished, and Molly couldn't contain herself. She stayed up late till past midnight most days to work on him, and her hard work reflected in his beauty. Her cat brushed past her legs several times, and she liked to imagine he was praising the skill of his mistress, but knew that all he really wanted was pieces of the fish she caught in the morning.
Her statue looked wondrous, so life-like, so human. She desired him. She desired his touch, to hear his voice tell her she was his.
She willed for him to show her a sign of life, anything that would even remotely signal a pulse, anything that would put an end to this game he'd been playing with her feelings.
...
Sherlock shifted his body slowly on the bed, and Molly raised her eyebrows in anticipation.
He was considerably weak, but his breathing rate had normalized, and slowly, he cracked open his eyes.
"You're here."
"Of course I am."
...
She rubbed her sleepy eyes, and looked at her masterpiece. It was finished. Her heart told her that he should be hers; the clock told her to turn in for the night.
She decided to gaze on the statue's beauty once again in the morning, and turned to get some water for her parched throat, but felt a hand on her wrist.
Molly froze in her tracks, and then, like a nervous baby bird taking its first flight, turned.
He was alive.
