In all other respects it was just an ordinary day for Molly Hooper, pathologist by day and spinster by night. She'd been living and working in London for just over a year now and even though she loved the city and her new job she did still feel a bit lost and sometimes lonely.
Today was one such day, she was taking her lunch break and had decided to go out of the hospital for once. Neither of her two friends were available to join her so she decided to head out; maybe find a bench in a park in the sun where she could sit quietly and enjoy her sandwiches.
It was only as she passed a small church, just a few minutes' walk from Bart's, that she saw the open doors and the sign. Apparently, there was a lunchtime performance by a string quartet and people were being invited in to have their lunch inside and enjoy the music. 'A musical oasis in the desert of your working day' was what the sign said, and Molly was intrigued. Her father had been a great lover of classical music. When she was young, he had taken her to many an orchestral performance or a ballet and, whilst she wasn't an aficionado herself, she did enjoy hearing classical music every so often.
Decision made she entered the dimly lit interior and settled herself down in one of the pews to eat her lunch and hopefully enjoy the music.
There must have been about twenty to thirty people dotted throughout the church and the group were already playing at the front, just to the side of the pulpit. It was a beautifully melancholic piece which Molly didn't recognise, but it already had her sighing and feeling a sense of relaxation washing over her.
For the first minute or two she concentrated on quietly opening her sandwich box and starting to eat, interspersing the sandwich with a sip of the tea she'd brought with her from the hospital's coffee shop. It was only when the music changed to something a bit livelier that she looked up and paid more attention to the group. There were two men and a woman playing violins, although one of the instruments looked slightly larger and Molly wondered if she was right in thinking it was a viola...her knowledge really was rusty. The last member of the group was a dark-haired woman playing the cello.
As her eyes flicked over each of them, she was immediately entranced by one of the violinists. He was tall, slim, immaculately dressed in what looked like a very expensive suit. He had a head of dark curls and cheekbones to die for... and his eyes, she couldn't tell if they were blue or green from this distance, but they had a slight cat like look to them. She felt a very sudden and visceral lurch of attraction for him. If she believed in such a thing, she might even have said it was love at first sight...it was most definitely lust at first sight.
Her food forgotten, she watched open mouthed as his fingers flew over the strings, his concentration in the music was all consuming. He seemed to be the lead in the music and his expertise and passion just left Molly wanting more...so much more.
With an effort she dragged her eyes away from him to look at the others. The viola player was another man. He was shorter, blond, and looked slightly older than Mr Tall, Dark and Shaggable (as he'd become in Molly's mind). The other violinist was a similar height to the blond man and her hair was obviously not a natural blond, but she had a very smiley face, the sort that made you feel like you were her friend before you even knew her.
That was unlike the cellist who was almost arrogantly beautiful. Molly's guts twisted as she looked at them, she couldn't help but wonder if they were all romantically involved with each other as well as musically involved. Her head naturally seemed to put the two blondes together and the two dark haired ones together and Molly found herself feeling an irrational jealousy towards the cellist.
It was only then that she noticed a printed sheet of paper on the shelf attached to the back of the pew in front of her. She put down her sandwich box and picked it up.
It gave a little bit of blurb about how they were brought together by a love of music and how even though they all had 'day jobs' they loved to play for other people's enjoyment and to raise money for charity etc. Then it listed out the pieces of music that they were playing today.
Molly's eyes went back to the man she now knew was Sherlock Holmes. She let the name roll around in her mind, mouthing it silently. It was certainly an unusual name, not a first name she'd come across before. She wondered what his day job was.
It was frustrating that Molly had to leave before they got to the end of their set. Not that she was sure that she would do or say anything, but she was curious to know if they were 'together' in any way. She did, however, see a member of staff near the doorway and she asked her whether the group intended to play there more than once.
'Oh yes, they've signed up to play each week for the next month...they're very good, aren't they? For amateurs I mean.'
Molly agreed, already planning to return the following week.
It was a week that seemed to go by in the blink of an eye and before she knew it she was back again. This time she'd arrived a little earlier and the four musicians were just setting up.
She couldn't resist sitting a little closer and she could hear them chatting, though she couldn't quite make out what they were saying. She did, however, hear her favourite's voice. He had a deep baritone which seemed to make the hairs on the back of her neck stand up.
As he straightened himself and started to tune up his instrument their eyes met, and Molly felt her heart literally skip a beat as he held her gaze. She could have sworn that he gave her a smile but then one of the others distracted him and the moment was sadly lost.
The music was as enchanting this time as it had been the first and Molly was barely able to keep her eyes off the first violinist. Classical music had never been so appealing to her and it had her coming back eagerly the following week.
On this occasion she'd decided to arrive a little later, wanting to see the group dynamics as they packed up and left. She was lucky that her boss, Mike, was quite flexible when it came to her lunch breaks and didn't seem to mind her changing her times.
For a moment, as she sat down, she closed her eyes and let the music just wash over her. Once again it just seemed to relax her, body and soul. And when she opened her eyes and looked at the object of her lust fuelled fantasies, she was shocked to find him looking right at her. Just as had been apparent the week before there was a definite smile playing on his lips as he looked at her. Maybe, just maybe, the attraction was mutual.
By now she'd given up trying to actually eat her lunch whilst in the church; he was far too distracting, so instead she just sipped on her latte and enjoyed watching him. His eyes would close as he lost himself in the music and she'd wonder just what it would be like to let her fingers slide over his cheekbones and his jaw. She couldn't help imagining him leaning in to kiss her; would his lips be soft and tentative, or would he kiss as passionately as he played.
Each time he opened his eyes again they would seek hers out. She was getting more and more confident that there was something there between them and she couldn't wait for the set to end. Would she be brave enough to just go over and ask him out?
Finally, the last piece came to a close, and Molly joined the rest of the audience as they clapped their hands in appreciation.
People around her started to pack up their things and make their way out of the church, but Molly stayed where she was and watched the group chat to each other, laughing and folding up their sheets of music. She saw Sherlock catch sight of her and say something to the group and the other guy, John, looked over and nodded his head to his taller friend and Molly wished she knew what had been said.
Before anything else happened though her phone rang, shocking her back to reality as she fumbled about in her bag to retrieve it.
'Hi Molly, it's Mike. DI Lestrade has a few questions about the body you autopsied this morning, you know...the strangulation case. I know it's your lunch break, but could you come back early? You can take the time at the end of the day to make up for it.'
Molly couldn't help but feel a twinge of disappointment as she replied in the affirmative and picked up her bag. She could feel Sherlock's eyes on her as she left the church and she vowed to come back the following week...she had to, it was the last week they were playing, and she couldn't miss her last chance to ask him out.
It wasn't to be though, the following week she was laid low with flu. As she lay in her bed, dosed up with paracetamol and lemsips she could have cried with frustration. What if they never played at the church again? What if she'd missed her chance and she never saw him again? Somehow, she felt that he was it... he was the one. Maybe it was delirium, I mean, this was a man she'd never even said a single word to. How on earth could he be her one true love? She didn't even believe in soul mates for goodness sake. But the feeling persisted to the point that she vowed she'd go to the church and ask for the group's contact details. She'd lie if she had to and tell them that she wanted to book them for an event...anything to be able to get in touch with him and not lose her chance.
It was almost a week later before she was finally well enough to go back to work. As she arrived Mike informed her there was another murder victim that had come in overnight.
'Sounds like it's another strangulation case, like the one the week before last. Lestrade rang asking for it to be handled urgently, he's going to be in around eleven o'clock for the basics so if you could start with that one it would be a great help.'
Molly smiled and nodded as she put on her lab coat. 'OK, no problem.'
She was almost finished and just starting to sew up the body when Greg arrived. He was a very good looking 'silver fox' and Molly had to admit that she'd had a little bit of a crush on him right up until her obsession with the violinist had started. That reminded her, she needed to go to the church to get the music group's contact details once she'd finished here.
'Hi Greg, just let me wash up and then I'll talk you through it.'
As she turned away, she heard the door open again, no doubt Greg's Sergeant joining them. Sally Donovan was a bit spiky and sarcastic at times, but Molly got on OK with her.
It was an utter shock therefore when she turned around and found him chatting to the man who'd dominated her every waking thought for the last four weeks.
Her eyes widened in shock, and she knew her mouth had fallen open. 'Oh, it's you.'
Both men looked over and she saw Sherlock's reaction as he saw and recognised her. He looked as shocked as she felt but then his face burst into a wide infectious grin.
'Hey, it's you.' He replied, making Greg look back and forth.
'You two know each other then?'
It was Sherlock who shook his head and replied first. 'No, not really.'
Molly moved closer, not able to take her eyes off the taller man. 'No, we've never been introduced, but I've heard him play. It was beautiful by the way.'
Sherlock thanked her as Greg asked. 'Play what?'
'The violin...I've been playing recently in a string quartet at a church local to here.'
'Oh right. Anyway, Sherlock, this is Molly Hooper, Barts latest and greatest pathologist. She's been carrying out the autopsies for these cases I was telling you about. Molly, this is Sherlock Holmes, he's a kind of... umm, a Consulting Detective, that I've brought in to help us.'
They stepped closer and Molly held out her hand to shake his. As he took her hand in his she felt a spark rush through her and as she looked into his eyes, she knew that he'd felt it too.
'I'm very pleased to meet you, Molly Hooper. I know it's close to your lunch break, maybe we can go and get a coffee together once we've finished here.'
Molly smiled and nodded. 'I'd love to.'
As they separated, she saw Greg shaking his head. 'Alright Casanova, I thought you said you were married to your work?'
Sherlock turned and winked at her. 'Maybe I've just found someone worth divorcing for...now tell me about this body...'
