Mycroft sat down in a dark-brown leather armchair in his hotel room; its soft cushion sank underneath his weight as he leaned against it. After his, Sherlock's, and John's harrowing ordeal in Sherrinford that day, he and Lestrade had taken rooms in one of the local hotels an hour before, but not before making sure that Sherlock was all right—physically, at least. Since John had spent several harrowing hours in a well at Musgrave House and had come close to drowning, he was spending the night in a local hospital in York Hospital; if the doctors were satisfied that he was also all right, he would be released in the morning. Sherlock was spending the night with him. Once John was released from hospital, the three of them and Lestrade would take the train back to London.
Mycroft was reasonably satisfied that John would be released in the morning. When he had visited his brother and John in the latter's hospital room, there had been no signs of complications from John's ordeal. 
 he thought. 
 Dr. Arquette was the MI6 psychiatrist who had treated Sherlock in the past, both immediately following Sherlock's two-year hiatus, and again when Sherlock had become suicidally depressed within a few months after his return to England.
 Mycroft thought, shaking his head, and glancing at the stars glittering outside his window. 
 He sighed and rubbed his forehead. 
most
dangerously
 He shuddered at that thought and shifted position on the chair's comfortable cushion.
That last thought, and the emotion that had just run through Mycroft at the prospect, made him stop and take notice. Sitting up, he reached toward the side table and picked up a glass of wine he had poured himself before sitting down. Always before, it was Sherlock, his baby brother, who had sparked that emotion. While he had never had any desire to see John dead, not least because his demise would have left Sherlock alone once more, his priorities, in the past, had always been Sherlock, the country, and John, in that order. 
not
 he thought, sipping his wine. 
The glass clinked as Mycroft set it on the side table and leaned back to consider, gently rubbing his fingertips over the table's smooth surface. He spent the next several minutes looking back over the past five years since John had first come into their lives. At first, his main concern had been that John look after Sherlock on Mycroft's behalf, and he had never hesitated to "kidnap" John for a chat about Sherlock if he felt the need was there.
will
will
 he thought. 
He rolled his eyes. 
that
that
and
 He shook his head. 
he's
Mycroft gazed down at his lap for a long moment, thinking, and then he took another sip of his wine. 
and
is
has
He folded his right leg over his left. 
 He smirked at the thought.
Mycroft rose to his feet and approached the nightstand where the phone was. It was time to phone Sherlock, to find out how John was doing.
