Sherly dear, you mustn't stomp on the table. All this mud on my lovely teak polish...
"No, that's enough, Sherlock. You almost nicked Mrs Hudson's ear off! What are you looking for anyway?
"..."
"It's that damn phone, isn't it? The one you use to text her - Irene Adler?"
"I don't text her."
"Well, why don't you wait for the blasted thing to ring again? It keeps going off every few hours, and some of us could do without having a woman moan while we're entertaining guests. "
"I'm not looking for the phone. I'm obviously looking for the pen."
"What pen?"
"Our victim's Caran de Arche fountain pen, which was lying conveniently on his desk"
"You stole evidence?!"
"Borrowed. It's not like Anderson and his imbecile imp army even noticed it, now, where is it, where it is, WHERE is the pen, Mrs. Hudson?"
"She left five minutes ago. How do you never notice these..."
"Aah. Found it. I was right. Secretary. Boring."
"Err, sorry? You think the secretary did it? But why? And what about the second will? How can it disappear?"
"Here, it's obviously her. And him, as an accessory."
"How is it obvious?"
"The nib, John. The expensive ink pen that requires careful ink filling!"
"What about it? And would you stop climbing onto the coffee table like an errant toddler?"
"Fine. I will explain it to your slow little mind. The will was signed with a fountain pen. Clearly, an old-fashioned one judging from the unevenness of the width of the lettering and that tiny splotch at the end of the t. Evidently, you hold the pen in your hand. A pen such as this would require constant filling. Obviously, given the wealth and proclivity for excess of our victim, this was a task assigned to the secretary, who, by the way, devours murder mysteries. It would have been easy for her to fill the pen with starch water to generate what is called invisible ink. Upon careful examination of the nib, you will see the slight twist, implying that it was previously filled with a thicker liquid, hence the pressure to sign it. I'm sure a chemical analysis of the ink chamber will confirm my findings."
"No, hang on... sure, she had the means. But what was the motive? The will doesn't leave her anything anyway."
"Obviously, she stands to gain a lot as the next Mrs. Richardson."
"But he's happily married."
"Is he?"
"..."
"It was evident from the blonde hair on his cufflink and the very expensive diamond bracelet on her wrist that Mr Richardson was involved in a fairly passionate affair with Ms. Lemon. Such a fact would, of course, not go unnoticed by our dying victim given their close proximity at work, and the fact that he got another secretary to mail the will to the lawyers. He believed he has cut Richardson out of his will and died happy, not knowing that his words were fading away with alacrity. There. "
John shook his head and wordlessly poured himself another cuppa. Sometimes, John Watson forgot just who he was dealing with. He also forgot, on occasion, to close his gaping mouth, and stick to his resolve of not feeding Sherlock's ego. He wished there was someone that could take Sherlock down a notch. Well, he couldn't put off the gloating for too long. Gritting his teeth, John was just about to turn to Sherlock when he heard some very peculiar noises emanating from the kitchen.
Startled, he spun around, half expecting a pair of assassins threatening Mrs Hudson. Instead, he got a Sherlock who was white as a sheet, nervously awaiting impending doom. There was only one person Sherlock was afraid of, and there was only one reason the aforementioned person would transform from Jekyll to Hyde.
"Sherlock", he hissed. "Please tell me you have not ruined Mrs Hudson's dinner."
"Sherlock Holmes, why are there human eyes in my salad dressing?! Explain yourself, young man!"
"Sherlock Holmes! Don't you dare run out the door!"
