 Well, I was not planning to write anything new for Sherlock. But I watched the coronation and was very moved by it. It inspired me into wanting to write an update within my little Sherlolly Journey universe. After all, my last story dealt with the sad news of the death of the Queen. I felt it would be only fitting to write a story with a happy theme.
I hope you will enjoy this little snapshot into the lives of my characters. I don't know if or when I will continue their story.
Truthfully, my own life has been much too busy and eventful. As my regular faithful readers and friends know already, my planned trip to France last month had to be postponed for a second time due to the civil unrest in that country (check Google if you want to know more). It was simply too dangerous and not the right time or God's will for me to go there just now. This was a major disappointment, as I had been greatly anticipating seeing a dearly loved family member for two years, but God's timing is not our own. I will continue to walk in faith and anticipation of the right time to embrace my loved one.
Enough from me. Now, read on.
"Wasn't it strange to see Harry in the third row?"
"I think it was more strange to see him there without Meghan, although I'm not surprised she stayed away."
A happy sigh. "Such a wonderful coronation."
"I thought it was very moving, especially the beautiful music."
"Little Charlotte was so adorable in her dress."
"It still is odd to think of the national anthem now being "God Save the King," when we are so used to singing 'Queen'".
"And now we have both a king and queen. Never really thought it would happen."
Sherlock let the conversation drift over him. John, Kayla and Martha had come to view the Coronation of King Charles III with Molly and himself. Well, it was mostly Molly who wanted to watch such a momentous, 'once-in-a-lifetime occasion'. Sherlock had not bothered to tell her that it was certainly unlikely to be the last coronation they would see, seeing as King Charles the Third was the oldest person in UK history to be crowned monarch. Even if the king lived into his 90s, as his mother and father had done, there was a very good chance that Sherlock and Molly would get to witness at least one more coronation during their lifetime.
Sherlock was just glad that John and Kayla were participating in the conversation. Kayla's parents were looking after Rosie and Adam today. It had been a few rough weeks for the Watsons; Kayla had suffered a second miscarriage in her fourth month of pregnancy, and it had been devastating for both of them. Sherlock still recalled how much he had grieved the lost baby from Molly's own miscarriage two years earlier, and hers had been a very early miscarriage.
So he was glad that his friends had agreed to join them for this auspicious occasion, and that they were smiling again. Working on cases with a morose John lately was decidedly tedious, and Sherlock hoped that today his friends had turned a corner and would be able to move forward again.
Both of the Watsons were currently holding a sleeping twin. Noah had been sleeping soundly for the past hour, and Kayla had managed to soothe a fussing Scott to sleep about 45 minutes earlier, after she had insisted on Molly staying to keep watching the coronation.
Victoria, now about to turn five in a few days' time, had watched the proceedings with fascination, and Sherlock had been amazed that she had sat through the two hours with only a few questions about the events during the service. Christina, never one to sit for long, had only managed to watch 10 minutes before getting bored and going off to amuse herself by assembling one of her favourite puzzles.
Sherlock had volunteered to keep the children occupied as needed so that everyone else could watch the coronation, but he had managed to catch a good bit of it as well once the twins, now a year old, had gone to sleep.
Sherlock had noticed tears trickling down Molly's face both at the beginning of the service and again at the end. His wife was so sensitive. It was one of the things he adored about her. Had it really been almost 6 years since he had finally acknowledged his love for her during that infamous phone call?
Hearing his name, Sherlock looked over at the speaker who had addressed him.
"You look a million miles away," commented Martha. "What did you think of the coronation? Or were you thinking about your latest case?"
Sherlock smiled. "No case, just reflecting on how my life has changed in the last few years. I have to say, everything was magnificent. I almost wish I had agreed to Mycroft's proposal to secure an invitation for Molly and myself."
"I'm glad you didn't," said Molly, standing up from her position at the end of the sofa and walking to where he was leaning against the door jamb. "I wouldn't want to have left the children for so long, and besides, BBC did a great job with the coverage. You wouldn't see much from inside the church."
"True enough." He slipped an arm around her waist. "Should we bring in the sandwiches now? It's already after one." Molly had prepared sandwiches for lunch while Sherlock had driven to Baker Street to pick up Martha. Christina, who never missed an opportunity for a ride in the car, had accompanied him.
"I'll get them. You can take care of seeing if people want tea or coffee."
A few minutes later, everyone, including Victoria and Christina, was eating the sandwiches as they continued to discuss various aspects of the coronation.
Scott and Noah woke, and they were dutifully assigned temporarily to the play pen. Fortunately, they were content to hand one another blocks and babble in a language only they could understand, with the occasional intelligible word of 
 or 
, accompanied by the appropriate head movement.
It was nice to spend time together, Sherlock thought to himself as everyone continued to chatter. The mood was certainly different from the somber tone on the day of the late Queen's funeral last year. These days, the families found it harder than ever to get together. Sherlock had not anticipated how challenging it would be to have to divide his attention between Molly and their four children. He had never seen himself as the type of man who would be happily married, let alone a father. And yet, here he was, still managing to juggle his detective work with the demands of also being a God-fearing family man. Not that he would change it for the world. Love, followed by faith, then marriage and children had transformed him into someone who had a purpose in his life beyond himself.
John and Kayla departed at around 3 PM to collect their children. Rosie might not be Kayla's biological daughter, but Sherlock knew she loved her step-daughter as dearly as the son she shared with John. Sherlock was secretly a little disappointed they had not brought the children with them today. Victoria and Rosie enjoyed one another's company, as did Christina and Adam, but John had told Sherlock he felt it might be a little difficult to control six children, and he knew Kayla and Molly had been especially planning to watch the coronation together for months.
"See you tomorrow at church. If we don't get to talk, we're still on for Tuesday?" asked John, as he and Kayla prepared to leave.
Sherlock and John were in the middle of an investigation that involved the theft of some valuable paintings that had been skillfully replaced by forgeries. Sherlock was pretty sure he had determined who the culprit was, but he and John needed to pursue a couple more leads to make sure his deductions were correct. "Yep, Baker Street, ten o'clock," Sherlock confirmed with the time they had arranged. Monday was a bank holiday in honour of the coronation, so the case would have to wait an extra day. Sherlock was not going to allow work to get in the way of spending a bank holiday with his family. 
 Sherlock, who held no regard for leisurely pursuits, was long gone.
Martha had accepted the invitation to stay overnight, and to attend church in the morning, to save any issues that might arise with Sherlock driving her back to Baker Street and potentially encountering traffic from people leaving the coronation. Obviously, the Watsons didn't have much choice, because they had promised to pick up their children.
Anyway, Martha was always happy to spend time with her surrogate grandchildren, and they with her. She was having a little more trouble walking these days, and had reluctantly allowed Sherlock to purchase her a cane to use on days when she had trouble walking, but her mind was as sharp as ever, and she loved playing games with Victoria and Christina.
Finally, when the children had been put to bed, and Martha was safely ensconced in the spare bedroom for the night, Sherlock and Molly were able to have some time to themselves. He knew Molly would be dying to discuss more about the coronation with him.
"Did you notice how King Charles looked quite emotional when Prince William pledged his allegiance to him and kissed his cheek?" asked Molly, leaning on one elbow to look at Sherlock as they faced one another in bed.
"I saw it. It was indeed a touching moment," he agreed.
They talked a little more, with Molly doing most of the talking as usual, until Sherlock yawned. "Molly, much as I would like to re-hash every detail, we do have church tomorrow and I would like to enjoy a little non-verbal communication with you before we go to sleep." He pulled Molly close and kissed her, inviting her own non-verbal response.
And his wife was only too happy to comply.
 Yes, I know this is short, but I wasn't planning to write anything, and this is kind of time sensitive.
I'd love to hear from readers, whether it is to comment on the story or to comment on what you thought of the coronation (if you watched it). It's always fun to know what other people are thinking. Did you find anything in the service particularly note-worthy? Any thoughts on the absent Meghan? I felt sorry for Harry, but at the same time, I think he has done some "bit-not-good" things like his book and Netflix special. I'm not a fan of people who want to publicly humiliate others to make themselves look like the victim, but that's just my opinion.
Au revoir!
