"John."
"Yes, Sherlock?" John put down his pen where he'd been attempting to document a few stray observations that could prove useful in the future. He used an old-fashioned leather bound journal for jotting notes to himself. He started this practice after his insanely clever and annoyingly clever friend had once again hacked into his online accounts and posted research articles.
"I have decided that whatever inane information you are vainly attempting to hide from me by using pen and paper is decidedly useless. No matter how many places you attempt to hide the book, in the freezer, behind the tea, in the secret compartment of your bureau, I will always find it. It's only a matter of simple dust and deduction that gives away your privacy."
"Of that, I have no doubt," John replied with an aggrieved glance at his bedroom. Have you ever considered that the real reason I continue to hide my journal is to occupy your brain and reduce your ennui?"
"Your logic makes no sense," Sherlock countered. "I'm perfectly capable of occupying my brain without assistance from anyone."
The lean detective pulled his dressing gown around his torso and crossed his arms in defiance.
John simply shrugged.
Two seconds passed. "John?"
"Yes, Sherlock?"
"I'm bored. I already know you're going to hide your journal in the tin marked 'flour' that is obviously not full of flour and likely has been hiding a few items of value to Mrs Hudson for a while."
"How did you…?!" John's voice trailed off, "never mind. How about you join me for trivia night at the pub? The theme is 007 James Bond. We can get ready and head out in about an hour?"
"Too many idiot people," Sherlock pouted.
"Or, you can stay home by yourself and organise the journals you've been collecting," John countered."Fine. I'll go. One wouldn't want to disturb precious dust by moving my journal stacks."
~007~
That evening, Sherlock and John sat in their stools at the local pub. A clatter of patrons and servers danced around them as the first trivia question was announced:
"What kind of car does James Bond drive in Moonraker (1979)?
"Aston Martin," John called out giving his friend a nudge.
"Unfortunately, that is not the correct answer," the quizzer replied. "In fact, James Bond does not drive any car in Moonraker."
"Next time, you should answer," John sighed with disappointment. "Your little brain attic must be stockpiled with all these trivia answers. You watched the entire series."
"Contrary to your assumptions, I do not 'stockpile' my brain attic with all trivia, John." Sherlock bore a look of disgust. "Why would I ever pay attention to such an idiotic titled movie, anyway? Moonraker… there is no need to rake a planetary orb with minimal atmosphere and no leafy vegetation."
John shook his head.
The quizzer called out the next question: "How does Bond test his magnetic wristwatch in Live and Let Die?"
"Do you know the answer?" whispered John to Sherlock.
"Why would I know the answer?" hissed Sherlock. "Who cares about a magnetic wrist watch. The size is minuscule and clearly incapable of anything of significance. It was probably just a fancy paperclip holder. I'm sure the answer does not deserve my brain attic."
"James Bond uses his magnetic wristwatch to unzip the alluring Miss Caruso's dress when he's alone with her," piped up another participate at the pub.
"Correct!"
"That could be useful after all," muttered John to himself.
"Last question of the night," the quizzer warned. "What kind of pet does Franz Sanchez have in License to Kill?"
"A lion," team B called out.
"Wrong answer."
"A cat," team C called out.
"Still not the correct answer," the quizzer looked at team A (Sherlock and John) with a nod.
"It's our chance to give the correct answer, Sherlock. Please, think back to when I forced you to watch the Bond franchise in chronological order one weekend. Remember all your moaning over the inaccuracies. Perhaps that will trigger in your memory palace somewhere?" John turned a pleading eye to his enigmatic detective flatmate.
Sherlock scanned his memory banks. "Really, John, this is ridiculous. James Bond is a fictional spy. I would have no reason to retain knowledge of his escapades. If you want another free ale, I will buy you one."
"That's not the point," John frowned. "We have both watched James Bond films. "We have seen Franz Sanchez and his pet, whatever creature it might be. We should remember it even if it was a cricket or a shark."
"Not relevant information."
"Is there any relevant information you can recall?" moaned John watching his chances for pub glory slip away.
"His mistress wore a supposed priceless jewel-encrusted bracelet that was obviously a fake," Sherlock shrugged. "It looked as ridiculous on her wrist as it did on the iguana's collar."
"That's it!" John could not suppress a congratulatory hug as he raised his hand and shouted out, "Franz Sanchez kept a pet iguana with a jewel-encrusted collar in License to Kill."
"Correct. Congratulations!"
~007~
"I might try pub trivia night again," Sherlock sleepily mumbled as he stumbled through the front door of their flat. It was not all boring, after all."
