Typewriters, whisky tumblers and stormy nights are terribly clichéd as the mandatory props for the dedicated writer. Sherlock despised them with a visceral gut feeling, yet he kept a typewriter on a side table by his dark leather armchair and some whisky bottle in the kitchen cupboards that he forgot to take to DI Lestrade's bachelor party years ago. Considering the current dead-in-the-water state of Lestrade's marriage, Sherlock refuses to feel guilty for showing up without a gift. In fact, going by the blushing bride's nail polish colour and the real deal expensive handbag cheapened by accessories that made it look like a cheap knock-off deal, the marriage had lasted surprisingly long.
Last week, Lestrade had nearly punched Sherlock for verbalising this very observation, which, in turn, had caused all access to Scotland Yard crime scenes by said detective inspector to dry up.
Sherlock was willing to admit within the mismatched wallpapered walls of 221B that cultivating a threadbare working relationship with only 
 detective inspector had been, in hindsight, incompatible with fuller freelance workload as a crime reporter, and occasional hushed crime solver.
It may have also been due to the fact that DI Lestrade was the right amalgamation of: 61% overworked, 31% emotionally invested in his work, 6% humble and 2% fatherly; a rare combination yet to be found in any other Yarder.
Most officers present at the scene when finally allowing news people to cross the blue and white stripes line treated Sherlock like a freak, for offering suggestions based on the evidence available or as prime suspects based on their level of intrusion in the case. It was mildly infuriating to Sherlock that these trained investigators missed so obvious a trail of muddy footprint at the edge of the sidewalk, or the significance of a staged dead body dump behind Piccadilly's most frequented cafés.
It was utterly depressing that as a "blooming amateur" his voice was not paid the least heed to, that is until it was typed furiously into Sherlock's phone, tablet or laptop, and posted online for Internet scrutiny.
Only then, Sherlock's voice was heard.
Long were the days of the 
website, it garnered 3 views a post – including the landlady Mrs Hudson, his meddling older brother Mycroft, and some random stranger misspelling 
for 
 (Miss Adler owned that successful web address, and Sherlock did not begrudge another entrepreneur for their success, so he had redirected emails and direct messages that were so sizzling hot that empires could fall on cue. Not really Sherlock's area.)
Sherlock padded the messy, cluttered flat from the kitchen, holding the whisky bottle by the neck. Cold air drafts animated the otherwise crystal still flat, drawn in by the sheer force of the rain gusts against the badly fitted windows. Still, it was home, even if Mrs Hudson ever threatened to raise the rent. After all, she never did. It was more of a way she had of encouraging her tenant to keep his day job and stay well clear from 
.
That was how Sherlock had met Lestrade, and those were darker days left behind, but not necessarily out of mind.
Sherlock let himself fall into his armchair, a hiss of air released by the cushions on impact, and glared at the empty armchair ahead. Thanks to a convolution of life choices and genetic intellectual superiority (or so Mycroft Holmes claims) Sherlock is a loner.
Undeniable fact, Sherlock Holmes is not likeable, affable, social, presentable, respectable or welcomed at social circles.
Sherlock shrugged in the empty flat. He's learnt to embrace solitude as a cloak of individuality and a trophy of excellence. Usually the crime-reporter-slash-amateur-detective wasn't bothered at all.
Tonight it hits him in the weak spot.
Sherlock let his eyes wander towards the typewriter by his side. A 1950s portable Italian construction, olive green and barely functional. He got it at a whim, allured magically to the antique object, enough that he exchanged the hit he was about to score with some diplomat's younger son who was slowly selling or trading off every last possession from on of his father's villas in the Mediterranean.
For once, Sherlock's curiosity actually drove him away from unhealthy habits. It usually propels him towards a shorter life expectancy.
Wholesome life choices didn't last long, as the younger Sherlock found a £50 note on the floor by a wrecked phone booth. He went back to Raz the dealer and scored his dues. Typewriter under his arm.
How he made it back to 221B that night is something his addled brain couldn't properly register – but, again, oblivion was the point of the exercise.
Somehow that typewriter had returned with him.
And there it sat, ever since, subject to constant humiliation by electronic comparison at Sherlock's fingertips.
Tonight, a storm raging outside and a crystalline stillness in the flat, Sherlock put away his phone – Raz's number ready to dial on the lit screen – and he took the surprisingly heavy typewriter into his lap. The machine fit there as if it belonged, exuding a comfortable weight that settled the man's frazzled nerve endings. It felt cool and dusty, as unaccustomed fingertips prepped the white sheet of paper, rolled the cylinder, estimated the margin and poised over the letter types. Sherlock let a deep breath wash over his tense muscles, and – for the first time in a long time – he relinquished control over to his overcrowded mind.
The doorbell rings.
Odd. Mrs Hudson never entertains guests this late at night.
Sherlock returns his gaze to the typed paper and frowns, his scientific mind rebelling against the fanciful flight of creative writing.
He rips the piece of paper from the decrepit typewriter and scrunches it, before tossing it into the stone cold ashes on the fireplace. He takes up the whisky bottle instead.
