Sherlock sat up from his bed . Stretching his arms towards the ceiling before giving a small moan. He'd been up all night not able to sleep. He got up in a small jump and headed towards his messy living room when he was just about to head to the kitchen to make some tea when he sees it. An small red envelope sitting on the table. He smiles at himself. "The game is on" Sherlock says to himself softly.
He jumps over the sofa and grabs the small red envelope. He looks over it. On the front it says "Sherlock a little gift for you" he already knew who it was from as he deducted by the wording and writing.
By this point John has got up from all the commotion of Sherlock jumping around. He walked into the living room and saw Sherlock with the red envelope In his hands.
"What's that" John said absentmindedly as he started walking towards the kitchen to make himself a cup of coffee to wake up.
"It's from moriarty" Sherlock says while opening the small envelope to see what's inside. John finally makes himself and Sherlock some good old coffee and starts to walk over to where Sherlock was sitting before handing him his coffee. Sherlock ignores John handing him the coffee. John grunts a little and places it on the table in front of him instead.
John sits down opposite him drinking his coffee. "What does it say"
Sherlock moans slightly as he read "he wants to meet me on top of Bart's hospital again" Sherlock says not looking at John.
John starts to pay more attention to Sherlock. Before he could verbalise what he was thinking Sherlock cut in. —"He wants to meet me to try something out for him, an experiment at 12 noon" he adds.
Sherlock has a brief excitement cross his face when he looks at John who is starting to look worried.
" don't look so worried John, what could possibly go wrong" as Sherlock says this he jumps up to start to get ready. Sherlock puts the letter in his dressing grown pocket so John can't read it. Not telling John what it said at the end of the letter. To not worry John further.
" If you don't turn up I will kill everyone you love with hidden hit men so it's in your best interest to be there".
"So we're going" John says shouting at Sherlock as he disappears into the bedroom. Still drinking his coffee.
All Sherlock says is "the game is on"
