Molly was seated outside on a bench in the garden. It was nice to be sitting in the sun, listening to the birds and watching the clouds whisper past. She was alone. Her thoughts for herself. Sherlock had gone for a session with Dr Hurst and she had taken the opportunity to just get away from their room. She knew that John still worried but in all honesty she did feel safe in their little space and their garden area. No one bothered them here. She leaned back, her face to the sky. Thought about the last few months and how drastic her life had changed.
She had grown during that time. Had come to know herself. Come to know Sherlock. She understood him on a level that even he wasn't aware of. Knew his tells. Knew when he was overwhelmed. Had seen his highs and lows through these last 5 months. Had done her best to help him navigate his way around Oliver. Her love for him had changed. She was honest with herself on that aspect. Knew that the infatuation she had was completely torn and ripped from her because of what they'd been through with Oliver and Jim. It had deepened into something more tangible. Even if Sherlock could never get to a point of admitting sentiment, she was okay with it. Because she knew that he valued her. Accepted her. That she mattered to him. She had stepped through the furnace that was Oliver and Jim and had been remade. She now knew who she was. She was stronger for it.
Thought about that night with Jim. When he had whispered secrets into her ear that pertained to Sherlock. Secrets she knew Sherlock would never share. She had been angry then, that Jim had done that to her. Had known the turmoil it would create in her. She had barely had time to consider the implications when her day had been thrown into chaos while she had helped Sherlock battle the drug Moriarty had made him inject himself with. It was like a little nub of worry in the back of her head. Finally, when Sherlock had slept and she had cleaned the bothy, she had slipped into his arms and had closed her eyes. Sleep had come reluctantly, pushed away by the knowledge that had been shared and that she'd wished with all her heart hadn't been done. Exhaustion had finally laid claim to her and she had slept.
She had woken early and had busied herself, sorting out the last few things in the bothy she just didn't bother with the previous night. Sherlock was still sleeping; his body had clearly taken a toll from the beating and drugs that had been forced on him. She left him too it. Had sat down beside him at the end and had pushed his hair away from his forehead. He wasn't a pretty sight. His eye swollen, bruises dark, the blood around his newly opened cut congealed and thick on the wound. Her fingers were light as she continued to caress his hair while her heart was broken for her friend. He sighed in his sleep, his fingers curling around the blanket as he pulled his legs up. She could see pain and wariness etched into his face. Knew that he wouldn't say anything when he woke up to any of his discomforts. Discomforts that he couldn't hide while he was asleep. Or in the throes of a nightmare.
Those had only really started up after his time with Oliver. She had seen the result of the 'retraining' that Oliver had provided. Had helped Sherlock heal by looking after his physical body. Had tried as much as was possible to be a source of comfort for him. Carry him during those four days while he'd recovered before Oliver had come for his next challenge. Smug. Satisfied. And Sherlock had gone without a word of protest. Molly had known that whatever had happened had been traumatising to Sherlock. It hadn't just been the physical or the sexual assault he had dealt with, there had been more. Something in his mind had shifted. He had been somewhat fractured and it had taken him a while before he had seemed to resemble being back to himself. To be less quiet and less introspective.
They had not spoken at all about any of it. She knew him well enough that it was a no-go area. The physical trauma was evidence enough. She gave him his privacy. Stayed quiet and did what needed to be done. So when he had finally woken up, she was seated and contemplating what to do. And when he'd asked what Jim had said to her it had almost been a step too far. How could Sherlock care about that more than his own injuries? More than what was done to him. She had stayed quiet while Jim's words had come to the fore.
He had surprised her then. He surrounded her with his body, pulled her tight against himself as he had leaned his chin on her shoulder. That had been the moment where she had decided that Jim's words can go to hell. That she wasn't going to give the other man any more traction in her head. And when Sherlock had pressed his forehead against her head, she had turned into his embrace and had grieved, not for herself but for him. For what Oliver had done to him. For what Jim had done. Somewhere there it had morphed to grief for herself as well, which had felt cleansing and good. She had determined in the end as she heard Sherlock's steady heartbeat beneath her while she sat in his arms, that he didn't need to know what Jim had said. That the words the other man had uttered never need to leave her lips. She would protect him with all that she had.
Molly opened her eyes, hearing his footsteps on the path. Time had passed while she had been thinking about those words that had pushed her not away from Sherlock, but only closer. She looked up to see Sherlock step up to the bench and then his lanky form folded onto the seat, his arms outstretched. She shifted into his shoulder and his arm went around her. He gave a small kiss on her head, his fingers playing a staccato on her shoulder.
"Session good?" she asked as she settled against him.
"Mmmmh."
She didn't reply. Closed her eyes. Enjoyed the feel and closeness of him.
"Molly?"
"Yeah."
"I think I still owe you cake."
She laughed. The memory of the overhang is a good memory to hold onto and celebrate new memories to be made. Something she had been working on with Dr Hurst. To be intentional in her actions. To focus on breathing. Enjoying the moment. "You crave something sweet?" she asked.
"A little. I'm bored and John has forbidden me from getting any more supplies from the kitchen."
"Ok, the mould growing in the bathroom behind the toilet was a bit much, Sherlock."
"It hadn't even turned a proper green yet." He complained. "It wasn't doing anyone any harm. Really, he could've left it for another day at least."
"What do you want me to do?" she asked and gave a small little smile.
"I can give you a list. It shouldn't be that hard for you to procure the ingredients. I promise it will be worth it."
She stood up and turned, looking down at him. He frowned slightly when he saw her inspecting him.
"Molly?"
She grinned and held out her hand. "List then, Sherlock."
A look of satisfaction came across his face as he pulled a piece of paper out of his pocket and stood up. Animated and alive.
Very much alive.
Right at that moment she didn't regret for one minute that she hadn't told him what Jim had said. Sherlock doesn't ever need to know about the poisonous words that the other man had used.
Her friend was back. Back to his experiments. His psyche is recovering and recalibrating to a quieter man. A little more aware of other's feelings. But still essentially at the core, Sherlock Holmes.
Detective Extraordinaire.
Chemist. Thinker. Observer. Violinist.
Loyal.
Protective.
Loved.
