Sherlock was sick. Sicker than hell. He felt terrible and looked worse. Good thing he lived with a doctor.
Said doctor was currently doing laundry because everything smelled of sweet sickness. He found Sherlock in his room a few hours ago. Curled up under all his blankets, sweaty and pale. John had given him meds for the fever and a bottle of water.
"Sherlock, do you need anything? You should probably get a shower and get all that sweat off your skin. You could develop a rash and I mean it smells… awful in here. I'll fix your bed while you wash up." John said when he returned to check on the detective. Sherlock just groaned and pulled his blanket tighter around his head, hiding his face. John sighed. Sherlock is the worst patient.
John walked around and squatted down, his knees protesting, so he was face to face with Sherlock. His nose was the only thing visible from his blanket wrap.
"I swear to god I will put you in that goddamned tub wrapped in your blanket. Get up and shower and let me clean this room. You smell worse than usual." John said in his '
voice. Sherlock shivered but not from the fever. He unwrapped his head and gave John puppy eyes.
"Up, come on. Stinky man, go shower. Think about what you want to eat while you're in there!" John calls after Sherlock as he trudged to the bathroom wearing only a pair of briefs and a plain t-shirt that used to be john's but is now stretched to hell.
John quickly stripped the bed and sprayed sanitizer on the bare mattress. He got a plain cotton sheet set and threw it onto the bed and covered the pillows in the nice new cases. John smiled and got a bottle of some good smelling spray that Mrs. Hudson cleans with and doused the room in it.
"Johnnnnnn" He sighs as he heard Sherlock calling out for him. John walks to where Sherlock's soaking wet head is poked through the bathroom door. His hair hung into his face. John thought he looked like a hosed cat.
"What do you need, Sherlock? Did we run out of water?" John asked and leaned against the wall. Sherlock sneezed and then hiccuped. Sherlock groaned and looked up at John, so defeated.
"I don't have a towel and I didn't grab any clothes. Will you- Could you grab me some underwear and a hoodie? I'm getting cold. And a towel! Please…" Sherlock said and hiccuped again which caused him to cough. John felt pity for the younger man. Sherlock never gets sick…
John dug through Sherlock's drawers till he found a pair of soft grey underwear and he found a plain navy blue hoodie in his closet. John went down and got a towel out of the clean laundry he had already folded but hadn't put away yet. John made his way back to the bathroom and knocked.
"Johnnnn, I feel like trash. I'm cold and my body hurts so much and I feel like I'm melting." Sherlock said through the door. John opened the door to reveal Sherlock sitting in the tub with the shower running. Sherlock was pouting as the water washed down his face. The room was filled with a thick steam that John thought felt rather nice.
"Sherlock, I brought you what you wanted. How about we get you dried off and dressed and right back to bed. I know you don't feel good. You've just got a bit of a cold. I'll come sit with you in your room if you'd like, we can go through emails. Now up and dressed." John said and put the clothes on the sink and handed the soggy man the towel. Sherlock had turned off the shower but was still sitting in the tub. John walked out and he heard Sherlock groan as he stood up.
John dragged his chair in from the living room into Sherlock's room and placed it beside Sherlock's bed. He brought his laptop in and made a plate of biscuits and got a few water bottles to set beside the bed.
Soon Sherlock walked in and flopped down face first into the bed.
"Sherlock get under the covers. Why didn't you dry your hair? Do you want to stay sick? Let me go get a towel. Eat these, drink this." John said and watched Sherlock cocoon himself into his blankets and nibble on some of the cookies. John put a bottle on the bed too before he left to get a towel.
When he returned Sherlock was sitting up in the bed with his blanket still pulled over his head. John put his knee on the bed and pulled the blanket off Sherlock's head.
"Do you want to brush it?" John said in a light quiet voice. Sherlock shook his head. John wiped the water from Sherlock's pale skin around his neck and then around his ears. Finally John threw the towel over Sherlock's head and rubbed and scrunched at the dark hair until the towel was wet and the hair was dry. Sherlock had closed his eyes and relaxed some. John threw the towel over near the hamper. John settled back and sat in his chair.
"Go back to sleep. You need to rest. All you can do is rest and try to soothe your throat. I'll make you some new hot tea if you'd like." John said and watched Sherlock pout and whine.
"Why're you whining right now?" John asked and Sherlock looked at him and poked his bottom lip out.
"I feel unsettled. Everything's wrong and I feel hot and cold and I'm overwhelmed." Sherlock said and sniffed his nose. He looked so… well not Sherlock-y. Not confident and solid. He looked rather flustered and mushy.
"What can I do to help?" John asked and looked at Sherlock. Sherlock just thought for a moment while looking at his hands. John just waited. Sometimes you had to be patient with Sherlock, John learned a long time ago.
"You like me." Sherlock said and didn't look at John. John shook his head. '
usually meant ' 
'.
"What do you want?" John said in a caring tone. Sherlock sniffed his nose again and picked at his blanket for a moment.
"Will you be okay with um… holding me?" Sherlock said. The last few words were mumbled so John didn't quite understand.
"Sherlock, I didn't hear you. Can you say it again?" John said and Sherlock blushed and looked to the side.
"Will you hold me, please? It's fine if you don't want to because it's not something yo-" Sherlock very quickly and rambled on. John laughed and sat down on the side of the bed and pulled the covers away.
"I didn't take you as a cuddler. Teddy bear are you?" John said and laid back against the pillow and headboard.
Sherlock blushed but quickly scooted so he was laying against John's chest. Sherlock tried not to move and stay still as he laid stiffly against John's arm and torso.
"Sherlock, you're intolerable sometimes." John said and pulled and pushed at the sick man until he was laying across John's lap with his head laying against where John's heart was. John put his arms around him and Sherlock didn't breathe for a moment.
"Is this okay?" Sherlock whispered and felt like he was melting. John was so warm, so so warm. And strong and solid under him but he had some softness around his midsection and he smelled-
"Go to sleep." John said and pulled the blanket back up over them. Sherlock was tense for a moment but then John started to rub Sherlock's upper arm slowly.
John couldn't help but fall asleep too. Sherlock's weight felt nice against his chest and it was nice and cozy. John slept like the dead for almost two hours before a coughing fit woke him up.
John opened his eyes as he was shaken away by the coughing man who was pressed against his chest still. Though Sherlock was laying a different way now. Sherlock had put his legs on each side of John's and his chin on John's shoulder. Sherlock had his arms wrapped around John, under the short man's own.
John instantly started to rub up and down Sherlock's back. Sherlock hacked and wheezed for a few minutes before it stopped. He tried to catch his breath. John just rubbed his back and pulled the blanket back up to their shoulders.
"It's alright. It's okay. Just breathe, Sherlock, breathe in nice and deep and let it out. It's alright." John said in a low loving voice. John felt so bad for poor Sherlock. The younger man was really just skin and bones. Coughing must take so much out of him.
"I feel shitty…" Sherlock said and laid his face back onto John's shoulder. John sighed and leaned over so his head was leaning on Sherlock's.
"I know. I know you do. Well get you fixed up soon enough. Do you want to get up and get you-" John offered but Sherlock squeezed him and interrupted him.
"Stay. I don't want anything. Just wanna sleep, please." Sherlock said and closed his eyes. He really was still so tired…
John nodded. He kind of liked being here, holding Sherlock.
"Okay. Let's just go back to sleep." John was soon right back to sleep, this time with his arms wrapped around the detective.
Maybe taking care of Sherlock wouldn't be too bad...
