Disclaimer: 
 isn't mine.
Summary: Mycroft Holmes goes to his yearly national security conference where, once again, Sherlock Holmes is discussed. This time a newbie has a different idea on how to deal with the threat that Sherlock's genius brain poses.
RME: Before I begin, I want to say two things. One: I'm not from England. Two: As far as I can tell, the English parliament building is called Westminster Palace.
Mycroft Homes walked through the halls of Westminster Palace in the early morning hours while Anthea followed behind with a manila folder in her hands. Mycroft was on his way to his yearly national security conference with his pompous colleagues. It was the one part of his job he didn't care for but still 
 to be cordial with everyone during the meeting. After all, their paranoia meant he could use video surveillance to keep an eye on Sherlock.
The doors were opened by the security guards and Mycroft Holmes waltzed in like he owned the place. The other participants were already there. Mycroft's eyes swept across the men and women in the room, noting their signs of annoyance without saying anything. He sat in his customary chair, Anthea's manila folder now on the table in front of him. The woman took up her position standing against the wall.
Then the meeting began. England's security risks were quickly brought up – including the people the group believed threatened the safety of queen and country. Like all those years before, Sherlock Holmes was the first person that was named.
"Sherlock Holmes is being carefully monitored," Mycroft calmly stated before the more dimwitted ones could panic. "My people and I are watching him closely."
A young lord, probably in his early 20's, shook his head. "He is your brother, Mr. Holmes. I do not believe that you would objectively watch him and be able to react appropriately if the need arises."
Mycroft's body language didn't give away his own annoyance at the arrogant man's words. 
 
, he reminded himself with an inward smirk, 
. He leaned back in his chair, the manila folder still closed. He locked eyes with the accusing man. "You are correct that Sherlock Holmes is my brother." Mycroft leaned forward, his eyes turning hard. "However, you are mistaken if you don't believe that I will put the safety of queen and country above my own blood." The young lord squirmed under his gaze.
"Mr. Jones, you are new here," an older gentleman interceded before Mycroft's sharp tongue could continue. "We all agree that Sherlock Holmes is one of the biggest national security risks to England. But even though he has been classified as such, we also recognize that no prison or facility could contain the man." Dissatisfied eyes met Mycroft's steady ones. "Part of Mycroft Holmes' job is to control his younger brother so that the… 
… man does no harm to our country."
Mycroft's own version went something along the lines of "I am the chief of security and part of my job is to protect my younger brother Sherlock Holmes. Your paranoia works in my favor and gives me the ability to watch him from afar." Sherlock was a man who didn't seem to know the definition of 'danger'. Of course, if asked, he was sure Sherlock's version would be along the lines of "Mycroft uses his job to control my actions so that I don't ruin his reputation." Mycroft hadn't decided on John's own viewpoint beyond "Mycroft watches Sherlock constantly."
The young lord sniffed disdainfully. "I'm sure there is a place to put him. After all, allowing Sherlock Holmes his freedom comes with a cost, I'm sure." The glee in the man's eyes set Mycroft's teeth on edge. He could read between the lines; the arrogant man was insinuating that Sherlock couldn't be controlled by his own brother. The idiot was claiming that Mycroft couldn't do his job.
In a calm voice, Mycroft redirected the attention of those present. " Gentlemen and ladies, if you are so worried about my brother Sherlock Holmes, how about I give you some new information that might put your worries to ease." Mentally, the elder Holmes added, 
. Mycroft held up the manila folder so everyone could see the name 
 on the tab. With their attention and curiosity caught, he opened the folder, taking out the many sheets of paper. "As you all might have heard, my brother recently acquired a flat mate by the name of John Watson." He looked at the man with military connections – Mycroft didn't bother remembering the names of his co-workers – before pulling out the paper on John's military career. He glanced at it then passed it to his left. "As you can see, the man was a soldier stationed in Afghanistan until recently. His military record is superb with an honorable discharge after serving as a medic for our army stationed there." He grabbed the stack of papers on John's background. "According to his background check, personal references and upbringing, John Watson is a friendly, caring man with a deep love for England and the queen." Passing the rest of John's personal information around, Mycroft could clearly see the confusion in everyone. If Sherlock was there, he'd probably shake his head and claim that it was obvious to anyone who bothered to look. Mycroft, not being Sherlock, chose a different route. "Sherlock's security risk factor is because of his brilliant mind. Video surveillance and I can only do so much. John Watson, on the other hand," he waved at the empty manila folder in front of him. "is the only person that Sherlock Holmes listens to and cares about. Tell me, gentlemen, does not a veteran such as him who Sherlock will obey seem like another layer of protection against the man turning against England?"
Mycroft's eyes didn't leave the young lord as he waited for an answer. The young man cleared his throat. "Even as that may be, Mr. Holmes, I still believe that placing Sherlock Homes in a locked facility like a maximum security prison would be the best choice."
Mycroft shook his head. "My brother has little tolerance for boredom. If sent to such a place, he will not be there for long. Once he escapes – and believe me, he 
 escape – our ability to keep tabs on the man will be gone."
"Surely your jesting," the young lord scoffed.
Mycroft drew himself up in his chair. "Am I? Everyone knows that he can solve unsolvable cases, get out of situations that most couldn't and still claim he's bored an hour later. According to his current landlady and past landlords, Sherlock tends to destroy his surroundings once boredom sets in. Heavens knows, I've had to pay plenty of his past landlords to gut his past flats and rebuild them. Do you honestly believe any facility – let alone a maximum security prison – can hold Sherlock Holmes if he chooses to leave?"
The young lord looked at the others. Mycroft knew he was looking for supporters but he had gone through this same argument again and again with each one. The one difference this time is the fact that the pompous young man was a fresh face who was wanting to quickly make a name for himself. Mycroft could care less about the young man's ambitions. The only thing that Mycroft would not allow was the young lord using his brother Sherlock to do so.
With no one else supporting the young man's claim, the papers were handed back to Mycroft who placed them back in the manila folder. The meeting continued and with it, Sherlock's continued freedom was guaranteed.
x.X.x
Mycroft sat in the back of his private car; Althea was once again seated across from him. Her inquisitive gaze hadn't wavered in the five minutes they had been in the car on their way back to his private office. "Sir, may I ask a question?" Mycroft nodded his head. "You asked for John Watson's information without asking the man himself. Why bring Dr. Watson's info when you've never given out information like that before."
Mycroft smiled slightly. "I knew who I would be facing off against today. Dr. Watson's information could be considered insurance to protect Sherlock from that young lord's ambitions. I do not take kindly to others forcing my brother into such a situation."
Althea nodded. Mycroft could see she understood the wisdom of Mycroft's move. "I see. Sherlock Holmes' relationship with John Watson could be beneficial in regards to your desire to protect Sherlock from danger."
Mycroft smiled himself. "I don't mind those fools believing that I keep watch over Sherlock for the sake of national security. I am simply using their paranoia to keep my younger brother safe. After all, Sherlock seems to be missing the self-preservation skill. And, even though John Watson doesn't work for me, the doctor will ensure that Sherlock is safe and taken care of."
Mycroft's only regret in this situation was the animosity Sherlock showed him. Unlike the younger's belief that Mycroft no longer cared, the elder brother had never stopped. The video surveillance had become Mycroft's eyes.
x.X.x
RME: recently, I was thinking about Mycroft's meeting after Sherlock killed that man in 
(season 3, episode 3). Mycroft seemed dismissive of Sherlock being sent to prison, claiming that Sherlock would break out of any prison they put him into out of sheer boredom. Then my mind went to the CCTVs that Mycroft oversaw, the hidden cameras in 221B and how Mycroft seemed to try to control Sherlock's actions. Add in some Sherlock fanfics with Mycroft being concerned about Sherlock's safety and welfare, and this little fanfic was born.
Also, for those who have been keeping watch on my profile, I have officially graduated from college (yay!) and am currently looking for employment. For these past couple of years, I've kept working on my stories while in college but, unfortunately, none of those stories are finished. Until now, that is.
