"John, I need your help with this case. Mrs Hudson let me up... who're you?" Lestrade asked as he walked into the Baker Street apartment. He had met John Watson a few months ago and now occasionally came to him for opinions on cases over a beer or two. He'd honestly call John his friend even though he didn't know too much about John's past. He knew the short man had served as an army doctor and got wounded and lived with a roommate (he assumed it was a roommate since he'd never met the other person) in a rather nice flat. He had been to his flat once or twice. It had always been clean and tidy and there was always tea and biscuits and baked goods ready. He assumed did all of that. But now seeing a tall slender pale figure covered in flour peeking around the corner, Lestrade thought again.
The figure stepped out and around. It was a man, no. The twitchy brown ears and curly swishing tail told a different story. A catboy. And a really rather large one.
Usually catboys and girls stood shorter, well almost as tall as John at most but this creature stood as tall if not an inch or so taller than Greg himself. He had a poofy and curly tail, rather oval shaped ears, and piercing blue eyes.
The cat smiled at him and dusted his hands off on the purple apron he had on.
"Hello! You must be one of John's friends! What's your name?" A declawed hand stretched out towards Lestrade.
Lestrade was frozen. Why was there a catboy in John's flat? Was he a maid?
Lestrade caught up and shook the strangely calloused hand. Catboys usually didn't look like this one. They were usually so much softer. They usually didn't have such large hands…
"I'm Greg Lestrade. And you are...?" Lestrade looked up and down at the other. The catboy turned and motioned for Lestrade to follow him. Greg spotted a small paring knife in the aprons pocket.
"I'm Sherlock, it's so nice to meet you. Take a seat! John's to be home in a little while and you're more than welcome to stay here and wait if you'd like. Would you like some tea? A biscuit? I just finished baking some banana bread and it'll be cool in five more minutes." Lestrade didn't answer because Sherlock was already fetching him a cup of tea and a plate of a few biscuits. Lestrade did appreciate the utter most politeness and welcoming. Maybe this was the roommate? No hybrids can't rent on their own. Maybe John co-signed?
Sherlock untied his apron and sat down in his chair with his own cup of tea. He curled his legs up under him and smiled a bit.
"Thank you, Sherlock. So do you um do you live with John?" The inspector asked. He didn't want to over step but he wanted to know more. He took a bite of the biscuit and immediately tried to eat as much as he could while still being polite but 
"Oh yes, for eight years now. We're bonded and everything. My room is upstairs! I'm usually up there." Sherlock said nonchalantly. Lestrade was taken aback. Bonded? John was bonded? For eight years? He's never mentioned being bonded or even dating or living with anyone. Let alone a catboy. Hell he didn't even think John wore a ring but the detective never paid that much attention to John's hands.
"Really? John's just never mentioned you. Not to be rude or anything!" Greg said more to himself.
"Yes I know. I don't like people being in my business unless I know they're nice. I mean I do not look like a regular catboy and cats are usually seen as dumb little things or bed decorations, in more than one way, and I am very much not a dumb little thing. I am definitely not a bed decoration. You are... you are nice. I can tell." Sherlock whisked away the now empty cups and plate with quick elegance.
"Oh… well you're very polite and if you're the one who's always sending snacks with John, you are one hell of a baker!" The detective said and laughed a bit. The slender man walked back in and smiled.
"Yes, I make sure John always has something to eat. I do so hate a thin doctor. I quite enjoy baking. I'm a scientist and baking is so similar but much more… rewarding." Sherlock explained in his more relaxed, lower voice. He was getting used to this man. He didn't comment on Sherlock's appearance or say anything...untoward. Though he did look at him in a slightly judging way but kept any comments to himself. Sherlock sat back down in his chair. He rather draped himself across it longways than sat.
"Oh really? Is that why you're always up in your room? Experiments and data logs?" Lestrade asks and looks at his watch. John should be here soon.
"Oh yes, sir. All the time. John and I always shared a bed so my room upstairs is my lab. I've got a fridge and all my tools and my burners and everything. John dearest usually gets me cadaver parts for any occasion so I always have things to experiment and learn about. Right now I'm doing a bit of an observation on molds." Sherlock said excitedly. Once Lestrade was going to respond the front door opened.
"Princess, I'm back! I brought you new sprinkles and some pig eyes! Took me forever to leave that damned butcher's shop. But I managed!" John called out as he shut the door and walked into the sitting area. He stopped short at the sight of the detective. Then he thumped his head with his palm.
"Oh I forgot you were coming over! I'm so sorry Greg! Princess I'm sorry I didn't call to warn you!" John said as he came over and kissed Sherlock's forehead. The cat purred a bit and sat down properly in his chair with one of his long thin legs thrown over the other.
"It's okay John. Your friend is okay. A bit large but he's okay. I would have killed him already if he wasn't." Sherlock finished by smiling at Greg. Greg rolled his eyes and laughed but when he got a stern face from John he looked back at the Cat.
"I know you would have. Always so hasty with the knife of yours." John said as he walked into the kitchen to get a snack for the cat. Sherlock laid back in his chair.
He was all long pale gangly limbs and soft fluffy fur and gleaming blue eyes. Greg looked shocked for a moment before nodding a bit. There was a small bit of silence before the detective called out to the doctor.
"So John, I've got this case and it is just so odd. Our medical examiner thinks this guy died from poisoning but he was just bleeding, everywhere. It was mad." Greg said as he pulled a few small photos from his jacket pocket. The cat jumped up and came to look at the pictures but as soon as he was close Lestrade held the photos to his chest not letting the curious eyed cat see.
"No, they're gorey. You wouldn't like it. It was pretty gross." Greg said and Sherlock pouted and crossed his arms.
"I eat birds and do experiments on pig eyes. Let me see." Sherlock said and made sure to lick his sharp needly incisors so that the detective could see them. John called from the kitchen where we had a fork in the still a bit hot banana bread.
"Oh Greg, he is capable. He's smarter than the both of us combined. Princess, dear, give us your opinion." John said and the detective returned over the photos into the slim plain palms.
Sherlock didn't flinch as he flicked through the photos and then he laughed. Greg looked frightened for a moment bit then the cat tossed the photos back into his lap and walked over to where John stood.
"People are so stupid sometimes, John. Utterly useless even." Sherlock purred and hugged John from behind before sauntering his way back to Lestrade.
"That wasn't poison. It was Scurvy. He was bleeding so much because he could no longer produce collagen which holds the body's cells together, he couldn't make the glue. He died of blood loss due to the scurvy." Sherlock said to the detective matter of factly. Then he turned back to John who was making his way back to the fridge and was fixing something.
"Johnnnnn that wasn't even fun. Your friend should bring me more. Oh like the Lobotomy and paint one! That was sooooo much fun!" Sherlock said and turned back to the detective who was sitting looking at him like he was crazy. That case was months ago… Had John told the cat about the case and Sherlock had helped… John had solved the case basically when they spoke again.
"You help John with cases?" Greg asks dumbly. Sherlock nodded and John walked back into the sitting room with a bowl of something. Sherlock peaks over the rim of the bowl and his eyes grow big and round and his tail swishes happily.
"Yeah, he likes crime and puzzles so usually at night I'll tell him about your cases. Usually while I brush him or while he eats. He's very helpful. He usually figures everything out just by me telling him or photos." John explained as he sat down in the chair that Sherlock previously did and the cat happily sat across his lap. Sherlock was purring and looking quite happy.
Ah so he was really just an oddball cat. Lestrade nodded. Definitely an oddball but smart. Fast. Brilliant.
"Well, Sherlock, maybe I should come around more often with cases. We've got a few cold cases that we've given up on. Would that be something you'd like?" Lestrade said and watched John mix what looked like berries and yogurt in the bowl.
Sherlock gasped. He looked at Lestrade with an excited face.
"Really! Yes! Oh it's Christmas! I want them all! Thank you!" Sherlock said and his ears were perked up and his tail wiggled excitedly and looked back at John.
"Greg, that's so kind of you. I'm sure Sherl will appreciate it. He loves solving old cold cases on the tele. I think you've made his year." John said and pulled the spoon of yogurt up to Sherlock who happily ate it. John continued to feed Sherlock while him and Lestrade spoke.
A week or so later Greg showed up again at 221b Baker Street with an armful of nine cold case files. Sherlock squealed and promised Greg any baked goods he wanted. Sure enough a month later John met up with him with nine solved cases, eight dozen cookies, and a bouncing Sherlock begging for more cases. That was the day Sherlock Watson-Holmes became a rather loved part of Scotland Yard both for his amazing brain and orgasmic baking.
