Lady In Black
Rainbow Haired Girl
Summary: Estelle Logan Jameson is part of Scotland Yard and has a name by Lady in Black which she lives very true to. But she is hiding a much deeper secret than anyone could imagine. What is that secret and what does it have to do with the Holmes brothers?
Disclaimer: I don't own Sherlock, but I do own Estelle Logan Jameson.
Authoress Note: Welcome to a brand new story. It won't be a series this time. I thought that maybe it would be wise to write it in as one book this time. This is another Sherlock story which will be different from the other one that I have written and I'm going to go through a rewrite on it to make it better hopefully. I hope that you guys will enjoy this new Sherlock story.
It took me a bit to figure out where to start, but I have to say that starting in A Study In Pink is a good place to start. I hope that this story will be good and you guys like the character of Estelle Logan Jameson. I know that you guys are probably curious about who she is, but I promise you that it will be revealed in all due time.
Without further ado I invite you all to read Lady In Black. And without further ado welcome to the first chapter of Lady In Black and be ready for a doozy of a trip. ENJOY!
A woman with black hair pulled up into a neat professional bun with a black clip with stones in it that were also black. She was also dressed in black from head to toe. Her black heels clicked on the floor as she went to the office of a friend of hers. She brought her hand up that was covered with a black glove before knocking on the door.
The door opened revealing a rather frazzled Detective Inspector Greg Lestrade. He looked at the woman for a moment. "Do come in."
The woman smiled as she slowly came into the room removing the sunglasses that she wore revealing a set of dazzling dark brown eyes. "Well, I have to admit when I got the phone call from you today that I was expecting it in a way." She mused as her light pink painted lips quirked up into a musing smile. "But never would I think that you would have me sit down at a police press conference."
Greg let out a breath rubbing his face tiredly. "I wouldn't have called you if it wasn't necessary. You're the only one that seems to be able to keep him off of our backs when working cases, Logan."
Logan let out a soft chuckle shaking her head lightly. "By keeping him off your back, meaning having him end up in the case anyways?" She mused softly. "You know as well as I do he won't say how he does things… Most of the time I don't even know why he does what he does. But it's all part of the appeal of the man."
"Only you would think that Logan." Greg said with a shake of his head.
"Can't say the same? I know you hate it when he comes in, but you have to admit he has been rather helpful." Logan said as her lips quirked into a rather amused smile. "Now care to tell me this case that has you so boggled."
"There have been three murders, at least that's what we think they are."
Logan pursed her lips together in thought. "But you think otherwise? That they're suicides?"
"That's what I think, but it doesn't seem like the likely case."
"This is what I get for being out of town working on something else for the last few months."
"Kind of think of it, you were gone when the second one happened too."
"What can I say? I have another job to contend with when I am not here. So the meeting is soon, yes?"
"Yes, in the next half hour."
"Who is sitting in on this conference?" Logan questioned removing her black coat revealing a black button up shirt.
"Sergeant Donovan."
Logan winced at the name. "She won't be pleased to see me back. But then again the more eyes on the case the better."
"I knew that you would think that, Logan."
"Let's just hope Sergeant Donovan sees it that way."
"She'll just have to understand."
Logan let out a soft sigh. 
She thought to herself. She knew that Sergeant Donovan was not going to be welcoming to her being there. But honestly she could care less. As long as the work got done that was what mattered to her.
SHERLOCK
Greg sat at the table with Logan and Sally. He was uncomfortable about what would happen. He knew that Sally was agitated by the tick mark that kept appearing.
"The body of Beth Davenport, Junior Minister for Transport, was found late last night on a building site in Greater London. Preliminary investigations suggest that this was suicide. We can confirm that this apparent suicide closely resembles those of Sir Jeffrey Patterson and James Phillimore. In the light of this, these incidents are now being treated as linked. The investigation is ongoing but Detective Inspector Lestrade will take questions now." Sally said, turning the floor over to Greg.
"Detective Inspector, how can suicides be linked?"
"Well, they all took the same poison; um, they were all found in places they had no reason to be; none of them had shown any prior indication of …"
"But you can't have serial suicides." The reporter interrupted Greg.
Greg let out a breath knowing that this was going to be a pain in the ass of a case.
"Well, apparently you can."
"These three people: there's nothing that links them?" A second reporter questioned.
"There's no link been found yet, but we're looking for it. There has to be one."
Logan's lips quirked as everyone's phone but hers went off. She looked over at Greg to see him looking at his phone.
Greg shifted the phone to show Logan that it said wrong on it.
"If you've all got texts, please ignore them." Sally said letting out a breath trying her best to remain calm. It was bad enough that Logan was there but to have him involved was something that she didn't want to deal with.
"Just says, 'Wrong'." The first reporter said, looking up at them.
"Yeah, well, just ignore that. Okay, if there are no more questions for Detective Inspector Lestrade, I'm going to bring this session to an end."
"But if they're suicides, what are you investigating?" The second reporter questioned.
"As I say, these ... these suicides are clearly linked. Um, it's an ... it's an unusual situation. We've got our best people investigating …"
Logan's lips quirked again as the phones went off again. 
"Says, 'Wrong' again."
Greg looked over at Sally despairingly. He didn't like how this was going.
"One more question."
"Is there any chance that these are murders, and if they are, is this the work of a serial killer?" A third reporter asked.
"I ... I know that you like writing about these, but these do appear to be suicides. We know the difference. The, um, the poison was clearly self-administered." Greg reiterated knowing that this wasn't going to end well.
Logan's brow raised in thought as she looked at Greg out of the corner of her eyes. She had a feeling that they were murders and not suicides.
"Yes, but if they are murders, how do people keep themselves safe?"
"Well, don't commit suicide."
Logan let out a breath trying her best to not shake her head. That was probably the dumbest thing that Greg could have done.
""Daily Mail."" Sally said behind her hand.
Greg grimaced knowing that he had made a mistake. "Obviously this is a frightening time for people, but all anyone has to do is exercise reasonable precautions. We are all as safe as we want to be." Greg looked down at his phone and let out a breath. He put it into his pocket before getting up to his feet. "Thank you."
Logan got up to her feet and slowly followed Greg out into the hall. "Well that was a blunder. Did you really think that they're suicides? I have a feeling that they aren't."
"A blunder that is all my fault." Greg said as he walked.
Sally came out and walked towards him. She let out a huff as she walked next to them. "You've got to stop him doing that. He's making us look like idiots."
"Well, if you can tell me how he does it, I'll stop him." Greg stated as he looked over at Sally.
"I'm sure his freaky friend here could stop him." Sally said, looking over at Logan.
Logan rolled her eyes. "As if I could get him to stop. He's going to do what he wants to Donovan."
"Would you rather him to make a fool out of us?"
Logan shrugged her shoulders. "We can prove him wrong. But you haven't proven yourselves to him just yet." She said as she headed towards Greg's office. "I'm going to get my coat and be on my way. You know to call me if something comes up."
"As always," Greg said with a nod of his head. "Thank you for coming in."
"Any time Greg. You know I would come in for you." She said, waving her hand as she walked into his office to gather her things. "
She thought as she grabbed her coat, slipping it on. She headed out of Greg's office slipping her sunglasses on. She knew that there was more excitement to come and she couldn't wait for it to happen.
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
This is the end of Chapter 1. I hope that you guys enjoyed this chapter. I tried my best with trying to write it out and make it as long as I could, but I try to make sure that my chapters aren't over 2000 words and if they are I try to make sure that they are no longer than 4000 words. I always try to make them manageable to read. Please leave a review and let me know what you think of this chapter. Reviews will help me keep going when it comes to updating.
