But it was too late. Too late for both of us. I stand over her grave, grieving in a way I never would have been able to only two short years ago. Before my sister, before being forced by her to say three little words that had far more meaning, more weight, than I'd initially thought.
Weight not just for her, but for me as well.
I feel a hand land hesitantly on my shoulder and turn, assuming it's John. I blink in a dull sort of surprise when I see it's my brother. Mycroft has become far less reserved these past two years, a fact for which I'm normally very grateful, but not today.
I shrug the hand off, turn back to face the gaping hole in the ground that matches the equally gaping hole in a heart I'd once denied having.
"Brother mine-" Mycroft begins, but I cut him off.
"Go. Away."
I feel him hesitate, then let out an almost inaudible sigh as he turns and trudges off to join our parents, who have wisely kept their distance from me today, after initial murmurs of grief and condolence I'm too heartsick - and too angry, I'll admit it - to find comfort in.
It's not their fault, not really; Molly would certainly never have blamed them the way I can't help doing. She was going to see them, after all, when the lorry driver lost control. I had selfishly elected to stay in London, working on a case - a mere case, bah! - rather than joining her as I should have done.
It's always easier to blame the parents for our own faults, isn't it?
I hear their limo start up; good. I can't face my parents at the moment, and I certainly don't need Mycroft or his false comfort - he never really warmed up to Molly, even after we were married - but I do need this time alone to grapple with the unhappy reality with which I am now faced.
A future once beckoned, bright and shiny, full of potential, a future that now rests in a plain wooden coffin. The very same style of coffin I'd once smashed into splinters in a rage at the thought of this woman - this vibrant, loving, loyal, intelligent, steadfast woman - occupying it.
The next time a hand rests on my shoulder I know it's John for sure. Not because I'm 
 sensitive to his touch that I recognize it through three layers of wool, silk and cotton, but because of the faint sound of a toddler's snores coming from directly behind me. He's holding his sleeping daughter, and I turn to look at Rosie rather than him.
Her sweet baby face, her disheveled blonde curls, the trusting way she rests against her father's shoulder…all that could have been mine as well. Mine and Molly's.
"Sherlock, we have to go," John says quietly, his fingers tightening slightly on my shoulder, as if he expects me to wrench away from him the way I had Mycroft. But I don't; I allow him to lead me slowly away from the gaping pit, from the shattered remains of my future.
Two men are waiting patiently by a copse of trees, behind which rests the backhoe they've brought in order to cover up that mid-range sensibly priced piece of wood enveloping its most precious cargo.
I don't even pretend the wetness on my face is the rain as we walk to our own limo. I sink into the seat and gratefully accept Rosie's sleeping form as John settles in next to us.
We say nothing during that endless ride back to London; what is there to say?
"I'm just saying it's been a year, Sherlock. I think it might be time, don't you?"
John isn't looking at me, is fiddling with his tea cup, and a glint of gold catches my eye. "I'll take off mine when you take off yours," I say, nodding sharply at the wedding band he still wears, three years after Mary's death.
He nods back in acknowledgement. "Fair enough."
Then he does what he always does these days: wrinkles his nose and remarks that I really need to let Mrs. Hudson in to do some cleaning. I make the usual half-hearted promise to clear out the rotting experiments, he understands I intend to do no such thing, and we subside back into silence.
The silence lasts as long as Mrs. Hudson and Rosie have their 'Nana time' down in her flat. When we hear Rosie pattering up the stairs and Mrs. H's anxious "Hold the railing, darling, do be careful!" John rises slowly to his feet.
Rosie bursts into the flat, smiling and giggling, a biscuit in one hand and a smear of milk across her upper lip. "For you, Unca Lock!" she crows, clambering up onto my lap and attempting to shove the crumbling mess between my lips.
I let her. I dutifully chew and swallow the ginger-nut, every last crumb, and hug Rosie tightly, pressing a noisy kiss to her cheek and calling her 'Watson the Greater' which never fails to elicit an eyeroll from her father and a giggle from her.
They leave, John as always hesitating as if he wants to say more, but I wave them goodbye and shut the door firmly behind them. I watch from the window as they enter the car, waving 'bye-bye' to Rosie when she looks up for me - she always looks up to make sure I'm there - and nodding briefly at John.
When the car drives off, I close the curtains, drawing them tightly shut. Then I go to the door and shout down to Mrs. Hudson that I don't want to be disturbed for anything short of an earthquake, she shouts up that she'll leave me be unless the building is on fire, and our nightly ritual is complete.
I close and lock the door. The other door to the flat is always bolted these days, as is the door to my bedroom. For privacy, I tell anyone who asks, and no one asks a second time. They all know me far too well.
Or at least, they think they do.
I walk through the kitchen, making sure to leave the refrigerator cracked so the remaining milk will spoil and the packet of ground beef will continue its descent into rancidness. I tip some of the mess I've accumulated on the kitchen table into the bin, a token effort, another bit of staging for my fretful family to tut over, and walk down the short hall to my bedroom door.
With the key in my hand I hesitate, taking a deep breath. The stench is stronger here. I backtrack, glancing into the bathroom, reassuring myself that the door remains locked. It is. I turn back to the main door, bracing myself, and turn the key in the lock.
"Hello, darling, sorry I've been so long but John and Rosie came by. I hope you were able to keep yourself busy while I was away."
I close and lock the door behind me. The room remains in total darkness, the window not only curtained but shuttered, inside and out. I hear the rattle of chains, accompanied by ragged moans, and nod grimly. The soundproofing remains intact; the clawed fingers remain safely muffled inside thick oven gloves covered by chain mail I'd special-ordered from some reenactment suppliers website.
The mouth guard, I note clinically as I shine my torch on the huddled figure chained to the foot of my bed, remains in place as well; excellent. I thought the addition of denture adhesive to the inside of the flexible plastic would help. As, of course, did the carefully applied drops of metal solder that had been the first, carefully applied, layer.
I squat down, careful to stay just outside the reach of the flailing arms, well beyond the range of the fruitlessly gnashing teeth. "I'm sorry, darling, but you know it has to be this way," I say softly. I long to reach out, to stroke the matted brown hair, but I know better now. The bite mark on my hand took days to heal, and I had to invent a desperate suspect to defray John's alarm.
The antibiotics he gave me worked quite well; I've been watching for signs of infection, testing my mental faculties almost hourly. So far I remain as sharp as ever, despite my melancholy. I am still Sherlock Holmes, even if my title of Consulting Detective is currently in abeyance. I have far more important work to occupy my time now. There has been no physical alteration; it appears there's no transmission via bite.
So much for popular media.
But then, I muse, as I reach into my pocket and hold up the desiccated monkey's paw the stranger had bartered to me that night I'd crept back to Molly's gravesite, intending to find a way to join her, my darling wife wasn't exactly your bog-standard zombie.
She snarls and scrabbles at the floor, the metal rings clanging against the wood, slavering at the mouth as she senses my presence - scents me? Sees me? Impossible to tell how without running experiments I refuse to run.
No, she's not an experiment. Even now.
"Yes, yes I know I should tell John," I say as I settle my back against the door, as has become my habit. If she ever works her way loose, she'll be on me in a minute, but the precautions I've taken should ensure that I can escape her grasp…should I truly want to. "But I've explained it to you, darling. He just wouldn't understand. You know he wouldn't."
I gaze hopefully into those dull, filmy eyes - eyes once a warm, vibrant brown - desperate for a glimpse of the woman I love beyond death, but am once again disappointed.
Still. Past performance is no indication of future returns, right? And Sherlock Holmes never gives up.
She growls and lunges for me, saliva dripping from her chin, and I smile sadly. "I swore we'd always be together, Molly, and I meant it." I raise one hand, stretching my fingers longingly toward her. She reaches up, too, as if longing to feel my touch, but the gnashing teeth and guttural moans tell me that all she wants to do is consume me.
"So, Molly," I say as I drape my hands across my knees, "what would you like me to tell you about tonight, hm? Rosie's visit? Or my latest case?"
Yes, all she wants to do is consume me.
And one of these days…I'll let her.
