"He's coming this way again," Anthea comments and Mycroft turns away from his best friend to turn and watch Gregory Lestrade, the new boy who had been bothering him for nearly a month come down the corridor towards them grinning brightly.
"Go away Gregory" Mycroft says as the boy comes to a stop in front of him, the boy is hard to shake. So Mycroft lifts his bag up onto his shoulder and turns with Anthea to walk away, Gregory walking in step with them.
"Give me a chance Mycroft. Please?" Greg begs as he continues to walk next to the other boy. "Why won't you ever go away?" Mycroft asks as he glances at Anthea annoyed before looking back at the other boy, with the same look spread across his face.
"I'm not asking for anything but one date. That's it." Greg pleads as they round another corridor, Mycroft is unsure of where Gregory is supposed to be going and pleads internally that the other boy doesn't follow them to the library to continue bothering him.
"He's persistent if nothing else." Anthea pipes up a couple of seconds later glancing up from her phone with a smirk as Greg continues to walk with them, not saying anything but just bothering Mycroft by his presence alone. Mycroft to be fair, is trying to ignore the other boy, but he's constantly in his vision and it's very annoying.
"Please, it doesn't have to be dinner, it can be breakfast, brunch or even coffee. Surely you can manage a coffee?" Gregory pleads now, changing tact as he continues to push for a date with Mycroft.
"If I say yes to you, will you go away?" Mycroft says as the three of them come to a stop outside the library doors, he spins round to come face to face with Gregory and the boys' eyes light. "You bet, I will" Greg admits quickly, his eyes lighting up at the prospect and Mycroft just sighs and pulls his diary out of his bag and flips through the pages.
"Fine. Saturday afternoon, 3 o'clock at Nero's. You know it?" Mycroft questions and Greg nods his head vigorously, his bright and excited. "Yeah." He replies after a few moments of nodding and Mycroft takes a note, "Good." He says and raises his head to see Gregory still standing there.
"You can leave now." Mycroft orders and Greg shakes out of his daze and nods before turning to leave hurriedly. "And if I see or hear you before Saturday the deal's off," Mycroft calls down the hall and Greg doesn't say anything he just speeds up before he's out of view.
"I was wondering how long you'd manage to hold out for," Anthea comments with a smirk as they walk into the library and head to their usual table. "Shut up." Mycroft comments as he runs his diary between his hands, the feeling of that social date weighing heavy on his mind.
