"You promised, Sherlock." She said. Eyed him as he sat in his chair, the violin in his hands. He looked up, eyes wide as he finally registered that she was there, standing in front of him. He clearly had been in a completely different world.
"What?" he asked. Frowned as he placed the instrument on his lap.
"Did you hear me at all?"
He looked petrified. Clearly he hadn't. Was looking for a way out. A hint of their conversation. Well, to be honest, her monologue; obviously now.
"Uhm, John was here?" he started. He broke her gaze and looked around the room. She saw the understanding come when he realised that he was alone with her.
"John left. Probably oh," she looked at her watch, "two hours ago. It's his turn at the clinic."
"Oh," he said.
She sighed. Sat down in John's seat. "Sherlock, are you forgetting what day it is?"
He frowned. Stood and placed his violin back in his case. Turned from the window and she could see him wreck his brain, trying to make connections. He was clearly clueless.
"It's Friday, Sherlock," she said. "And…" she tilted her head. Waited. He looked at his watch. His shoulders drooped.
"I don't want to." He pouted. Then he seemed to perk up. "Even if we leave now, we'll be late. So just have reschedule."
She smirked. "Sorry. Already did."
"What?"
"We have more than enough time to make it to the appointment. Come on. Grab your jacket and let's go."
He stood up reluctantly. "I hate this appointment, Molly. It's undignified. Why can't John do it?"
"We've talked about this. Later. Not yet."
"Fine," he huffed in the end. Followed her out the door. At least she was starting to fill her clothes a bit more. His own still sat too loose. His hips were still prominent, the concave of his stomach only recently starting to look less like a holocaust survivor. He was on a mission for cake, reminding her of his promise under the overhang. But they were not even close to eating cake yet. The dietician and his doctor adamant that his kidneys needed the time to fully recover. That sugar was a big no-no until that happened.
Sherlock hated going to the dietician with his whole being. It was a struggle and sometimes she wondered why she bothered. But knew in the end he needed to be there. Needed to realise that in order to move forward, he had to take responsibility for it as well. So, she and John did what they needed too to get Sherlock to his appointments.
They made it to their appointment with plenty of time to spare. Claire, their dietician as always, was practical. Took measurements. Hummed and hawed while she looked at their results. Compared it against a matrix and looked at their blood results.
"It's coming along nicely," she declared. "The smaller meals more often seem to do the trick. We can add a few more carbs this week. See how your bodies handle it."
"Chocolate cake?" Sherlock asked hopefully.
She gave a painful grimace. Not the first time it has come up. "Uhm. No. Not yet. Your kidneys are definitely doing better but it won't be a good idea to introduce sugar too soon."
"I thought the idea was to fatten us up," Sherlock complained.
The dietician gave a long-suffering sigh. Molly was very familiar with it in relation to Sherlock. He was rude. Keep pushing the boundaries. Between her and John, they had managed to keep him going on the path to recovery but it was hard work.
"It is to get your weight back up to what is considered normal and to get you back to eating solids fully. You're aware of the physiological effects that starvation and malnutrition bring, Sherlock. You need to give your body the chance to adjust. Get back to eating normal meals…" at this Molly snorted. With difficulty kept a giggle inside.
"Sorry?" Claire asked.
"Uhm," Molly ignored Sherlock's glare. "Nothing. Apologies."
"Fine. As I was saying. Get back to eating normal meals. 3 times a day." With this Claire gave Sherlock a warning glance. "Minimum."
"Archaic practice. Brought on by supermarkets wanting to increase their sales." Sherlock stated. "And currently we're not eating 3 times a day. More like 7." He said. Met Claire's gaze with one of his own.
"Smaller meals…" Claire started to say.
"…is better for our bodies to cope with returning to regular food. I 
" Sherlock said acidly. Stood up and paced. "This isn't fair." He turned to Molly, "I'm leaving." He said, turning towards the door.
"Sherlock, we're not done," Claire was firm. "Please sit down."
His hand was on the doorknob. "I don't have to follow your orders," he said softly. "You're not Oliver."
Molly sighed, glanced in apology at Claire. Stood up and went after Sherlock. She finally managed to catch up to him in the hallway just before the lifts. "What was that?" She asked as he grabbed him by the arm, forcing him to come to a standstill.
"Nothing," he pouted. Didn't meet her eyes.
"That wasn't nothing." She said softly. "What's going on?"
His left hand clenched into a fist. She knew what it meant. Had seen it so often since the fall. Knew that his shoulder was hurting. It was emotional. A phantom pain that seemed to flare whenever he was under stress.
"Sherlock?"
He hung his head. Seemed to shrink into himself. His right hand came up, massaged his left shoulder.
"Can we just go?" he asked instead.
"Okay." She stepped forward, pressed the down arrow button for the lift. Sherlock followed her inside when the doors opened. Didn't say anything anymore while they made their way out of the building and flagged down a taxi.
The ride home was in silence. Molly's phone chirped. It was from Claire. Asking if everything was okay. Letting her know that she had emailed the menu for the next week to her. She sighed. Looked out the window as London passed by.
The trek up the stairs when they were back in Baker Street was slow. Sherlock went straight to his violin. Molly went to the writing desk, opened the laptop and started up google. The first notes started behind her as she entered her password and opened Claire's email.
"John, please," Molly whispered. The sounds of Sherlock's violin were drifting down the stairs. It was mournful. Sad.
"Okay. I'll try," he said. Went up the stairs. Molly entered Mrs Hudson's flat. Drank tea with their landlady while she listened. Felt relief when she heard Sherlock's voice of complaint just outside the door and John's voice coaxing. Soon the outer door slammed shut. She thanked Mrs Hudson. Went upstairs and placed the laptop on the table. Opened to the recipe.
She texted Mycroft the list.
…
She smiled. Mycroft Holmes might be the British Government and disdainful of sentiment but when it came to his brother, he would do anything to help out. She sometimes wondered how they were growing up. Whether Mycroft's protectiveness was innate from an early stage.
Half an hour there was a knock on the door and Anthea stepped in with two bags from Waitrose. "Mycroft says good luck."
Molly laughed. "Thanks."
"He says that he knows the number of a baker who can do wonders with cake."
"No thanks. I think I'll be okay," she said. "I like baking."
"Very well." Anthea turned and left Molly to it.
She texted John. Asked him to keep Sherlock away for at least two hours. Then got started.
Well, it wasn't pretty. She had tried her best. Looked with distrust at the fairly flat cake that had come out of the oven. Maybe this wasn't such a good idea after all but she was now committed. She broke off a small piece. Tasted it.
It was surprisingly ….good. A lot sweeter than she had envisioned. Okay, she thought. Maybe I can work with this.
She started on the recipe that had been provided for the icing.
Ten minutes later she finalised her last touch. The icing wasn't bad either. This would be good, she thinks. Now to get everything ready.
"Why are we here?" Sherlock asked her. She could see the start of a pout. Knew that he'd been having a hard day of it.
"It's called a picnic, Sherlock. Ever had one?" she asked as she placed the blanket on the grass. He put the picnic basket he had been carrying down on the blanket.
"No," he stated. "Why would I?"
"Ah. Never mind. Some things make a lot more sense now," she said with a giggle. He didn't like it and gave her a frown. She leaned over. Gave him a soft lingering kiss. "Picnics are supposed to be fun," she says. "Something couples do. Families."
"Oh," he stilled. A faraway look came on his face. "Does the beach count?" he asked her.
"What do you mean?"
"When I was little, my family would go to the beach." He gave a wistful smile. "Mycroft always had fish and chips. He was a bit chubby back then," he said with a snigger. "Remind me to remind him later," he said with a wink.
Molly felt relieved. Getting out of Baker Street and here, doing something new seemed to have a positive effect on Sherlock. His mood seemed to lift. She lifted the basket lid. Eyed him as she thought of the surprise that was waiting for him inside.
"Okay. Close your eyes," she said.
"Why?"
She sighed. Managed to gather her own patience around her and kept reminding herself that this is Sherlock. And that it'd be worth it in the end.
"Please, Sherlock. I want to get everything out and ready. Will you trust me?"
He studied her. Seemed to come to a decision within a short space of time. "Fine," he said and promptly closed his eyes. She set everything out, made sure he didn't peek.
"Okay, you can open your eyes," she said. Her heart was thumping away but it had nothing to do with fear. She couldn't wait to see the look on his face.
"Molly," her name was spoken in a breathless whisper. He looked up, met her eyes. "I thought we weren't allowed cake?"
She smiled. "Claire gave me the recipe."
He smirked, like he had won a personal battle. Maybe in a sense he had. Molly was suddenly suspicious that Sherlock might just have manipulated Claire into providing the recipe with his little tantrum.
"You baked this?" he asked. her Raked his eyes over her. Understanding came. "That's why John had the sudden urge…" he trialled off. "That's conspiracy, Molly Hooper. Who else was involved…no. Mycroft. You truly are wicked," he said. Laughed.
It was the first time she had heard him laugh like this since she's known him. It was uplifting. Free of anything but joy. She revelled in it. She cut a piece. Handed him a plate with the cake. Took one for herself.
He took a bite. Closed his eyes and she could see his enjoyment. Felt her own joy bubble inside her at his look of contentment. He finished the whole piece in two bytes. Held out his plate for more. She couldn't deny him. Cut off another piece.
This time he lay down, the plate in front of him. He was sideways, on his elbow like a roman emperor of old. Took a smaller bite and smiled. Cake crumbs on his teeth and she giggled.
"What?" he asked after he had swallowed his piece.
"Uhm, you got some crumbs stuck in your teeth."
He raised his eyebrows. "Really?"
She nodded. "I might have to adjust the recipe to make it a little less sticky."
"I don't mind," he said. Took another bite and then finished the cake with relish. Turned on his back, one arm behind his head, one hand on his stomach. "That was …heaven." He purred. "Just perfect."
She moved the basket out of the way after she had cleared up and put the cake and plates away. Lay down next to him. "That was nice, wasn't it."
He turned his head. Looked at her out of the corner of his eye. "What else happens on picnics?" he asked. Molly turns on her side. Reclined with her hand supporting her head as she gently pushes his hair away from his forehead. Knew he found it calming. "Tummy full?" she asked with a laugh.
"Mmmmh."
"You can take a nap," she said. Trace the contours of his face with light fingers. Pulled his head towards her, "Or we can…," She leaned in and placed a gentle kiss on his lips. Leaned back.
"Your choice, Sherlock. What do you want to do?"
He smiled. Rolled and then he was half on top of her. "Molly Hooper, you are as ever, a force to be reckoned with." He leaned in. This time his kiss deepened. He broke it off after a while. Leaned back and studied her. Molly felt a little little-self-conscious. There was something in his eyes that she hadn't seen before.
"Molly," he said softly. His voice gruff.
"What?"
"Thank you."
She tilted her head. "For?"
He leaned forward, his forehead on hers. "For being you."
She smiled. Reached up a hand and cupped his cheek. "Love you."
He matched her smile. Kissed the corner of her mouth. "Little cake crumb stuck there," he murmured. She giggled. He kissed the other corner of her mouth. "…and another little crumb here…"
Molly broke the kiss this time. Pushed him away playfully. "Park, Sherlock."
He groaned. Lay back down on his back and stared up at the sky. "You did suggest…"
She laughed. Settled against his shoulder. "Some things are best left for the privacy of one's bedroom, yes?"
He pulled his arm around her. Held her close. Kissed the top of her head. Closed his eyes. Enjoyed the late afternoon sun. Enjoyed having Molly in his arms.
All was good. He grinned. Could feel some crumbs still stuck to his teeth. He didn't mind.
He finally had cake. And could eat it too…
