It's a small thing, something one might not notice amongst the clutter of his flat. Just a wall-mounted curio cabinet with a few ceramic pieces inside it: an Irish Setter, a female saint with short blonde hair, a little girl holding up a toy aeroplane, a Victorian gentleman with a moustache, a uniformed police officer with a blinding smile, a gangster's moll with a motherly expression…and a fierce warrior-woman wielding a sword in one hand and, somewhat incongruously, what appears to be a tiny scalpel in the other.
They are his treasures. They are safe there, stored away where no harm can come to them.
He remembers how they came to populate this little safe haven he created for them, when he chooses to remember. He's an old man now, living alone or so people believe.
With the contents of the curio cabinet, however, he's never alone.
Today is a day he chooses to remember.
"
"Redbeard," Sherlock Holmes, former consulting detective, many years retired now, whispers as he opens the cabinet and lays a gentle finger on the ceramic dog's head. "Redbeard."
And he remembers how Redbeard was joined, many years later, by Our Lady of Sacrifice.
"
"
It's only fitting, Sherlock thinks as he smiles fondly down at the two figurines, since they'd never met in life. But he likes to think they'd have been friends if they had.
The smile fades as he gazes at the next figure, the little girl with the bunches in her hair holding up a toy aeroplane as if helping it to catch the wind. The little girl he'd forgotten until she burst back into his life, fully grown and as pure a psychopath as any human being had ever been.
His eyes stray to the next figurine, the Victorian gentleman. He lifts the ceramic figure out and studies it with a sorrowful eye. "Oh John," he whispers. "I'm so sorry." He replaces the figure back in the cabinet and passes a trembling hand over his eyes. This memory, he can't force himself to revisit; John had nearly died because of him, would have died if he hadn't…if he hadn't…
Hadn't what? He's never been able to find an answer for how it happens, how living, breathing people become…what he makes them into. Or what some other force makes them into? Because he's never been able to do it consciously.
Take his sister, for instance. He'd buried his memories of her so deep into his subconscious that she'd vanished, not transformed like Redbeard, simply…gone. And Mycroft, at the advice of their Uncle Rudy and, apparently, a slew of government psychologists, had allowed his brother the supposed peace of that reinventing of the truth.
A peace that had led to a lifetime of substance abuse, misanthropy, and an obsession with the abstract concept of justice that had led in turn to the creation of Sherlock Holmes, Consulting Detective.
John had been the first person to pierce that carefully-created shell, knocking holes into his protective armor in a way even his landlady had never been able to manage. But once the process had begun, there had been no turning back; Mycroft had been forced to watch, helplessly, as slowly but surely his brother's path to restoring his memories had been forged.
John, Mrs. Hudson, Lestrade - and one other he couldn't bring himself to name.
The one who, in the end, mattered most.
The one he'd so recently lost and yet would never be parted from again.
Resolutely he returns his attention to the other two figures, the police bobby and the gangster's moll. He misses them both in different ways; the fatherly figure who'd taken a troubled junkie under his wing and given him something to use his mind on instead of trying to drug it into submission; the motherly figure whose case had been his first success and had set her free.
He laid a gentle finger atop each figurine's head in turn, smiling as he recalled just how much they had impacted that wild young junkie's life, and how glad he was that they were still so close to him after all these years. Lestrade had been spared the worst ravages of brain cancer, and Hudders the indignity of dementia.
This time when his smile fades, he knows it won't return. Reluctantly he reaches down and lifts the last figurine out of the case. The fierce little warrior-woman with the sword and the scalpel in place of the traditional knife or shield.
"Molly," he whispers, his eyes closing as tears slip down his cheek. "My Molly." He lifts the figurine to his lips, presses a soft kiss to the tiny face, and sinks to the floor. He can feel it coming, in the way his heart stutters and falters in his chest, in the spasms of pain, but he can't bring himself to care. "I'm sorry I couldn't save you, Molly. I'm so, so sorry. It's my fault those bombs were in your flat, it's my fault Eurus wasn't there to stop them from going off. I hope you can forgive me."
 Sherlock, a voice whispers in his mind. A much-loved, much-missed voice. One he hasn't heard in, oh, far too long. Despite his earlier belief, a smile curves his lips as he feels her love for him like the softest of caresses; he can almost feel her fingers carding through his curls, the touch of her lips against his.
That evening, when his adopted daughter Rosamund comes to the flat to check on him, there's no sign of the aged detective. She never stops searching for some sign of what happened to him that day. Neither does his brother, his only other living relative.
Neither of them take any note of the odd configuration of the ceramic figurines in the little curio cabinet tucked into a corner of the sitting room, lying half-hidden beneath a pile of old case notes, notebooks, and loose photographs. Where once they had been lined up in a row, now all but one stand in a half-circle - almost protectively, one might think - around the last figurine.
Nor do either of them ever realise that that final figurine - that of the warrior-woman - has been altered. Where once it was just the fierce warrior, now there is a second figurine joined to it. That of a kneeling penitent with his arms clasped around her knees, his head raised in a joyful smile that is matched by the one on her own lips as she gazes back down at him. Gone are the sword and the scalpel; instead, her hands rest on his head, and if one looks closely, one can see that her fingers are threaded through the other figure's dark curls.
 
