Confession
John was busily blogging when he realized that Sherlock was looming behind him. He didn't take Sherlock's presence seriously as Sherlock had been like that since the start of their acquaintance.
Sherlock paced around the room, anxious for no reason, entering and exiting the kitchen, flipping through old books and telephone numbers, trying his best to catch John's attention. When he noticed his attempts to seek attention was either missed or ignored (probably the latter), he turned to vocal interruption.
"I'm bored." Sherlock complained out loud.
"I can observe that." John replied quickly and without thinking.
"Then I appreciate the fact that you had finally learned to observe, after so many years." Sherlock spitted out, cold and harsh.
There were a few seconds of awkward silence. Before Sherlock repeated the sentence again, like an annoying six-year-old seeking attention.
"I'm bored."
John tried to ignore him but couldn't when Sherlock reached out a hand to stop him from typing. He sighed, sat back and looked at Sherlock.
"What do you want?" John sighed. Sherlock was bothering him so much. So much that he even considered moving out of 221B despite the interesting cases (Mrs. Hudson pleaded him not to, for she had no methods of putting up with Sherlock if John's away). Eventually, John gave in and traded his peace and personal space as well as privacy, for a cheap flat and the worst roommate, ever. Sherlock behaved like an obnoxious child, and it only worsened after they started going on cases together. Perhaps Sherlock felt like John was somebody he could talk to express his feelings to. But, bloody hell, why him but not Lestrade? Or Mycroft?
"Why don't you phone Lestrade and ask if he has any new cases for you?"
"He won't answer."
"Then why should I?" John muttered quickly under his breathe, but still not quick enough and Sherlock heard that. Sherlock hears everything.
"Hmph. You have been quite grumpy these days. Much gloomier that before." Sherlock stopped the pacing and sat down opposite of him.
"Well observed. You're brilliant." John said emotionlessly, still busily typing.
Sherlock, completely missed the sarcasms in his voice, carried out his thoughts out loud.
"Not something to do with work, no, of course not. You have been returning home quite early these days. Nothing unusual, you're not acting suspicious, not acting like you are trying to hide anything. You're just carrying on your normal lifestyle."
Sherlock paused, starring into the kitchen, before returning his gaze to his doctor again.
"What is it?" He asked, flatly.
John raised an eyebrow and slammed the computer shut.
"Well." John dragged on and stopped, leaned against his chair and crossed his arms.
"Can't the Master of Deduction deduce the fact of my gloomy mood and grumpiness?"
"I asked you what it is and I'm not repeating myself again."
"Ashamed?" John's finger tapped the desk rhythmically.
Seeing Sherlock not responding, John went on.
"How will Sherlock Holmes react when he discovers that he is the cause, of all this?"
There was another pause, before John tried to go on, but was quickly interrupted by Sherlock.
"You're saying that my behaviors upset you?"
"Precisely."
"No."
"Excuse me?" John turned around to face Sherlock, who was currently pacing around the living room.
"You're not bothered by my behaviors, no." Sherlock said, smirking at John.
"Oh really?" John replied, standing up straight and trying to make himself look bigger, "Than what is your O-so-true-deduction telling you?"
"That you're in love." Sherlock replied, still smirking, even wider.
"No." John replied too quickly to be not alarmed by Sherlock's statement. Even for the worse, he backed up a few steps as he repeated himself "No, I'm not in love."
"Certainly." Sherlock said drily, without any sense of humor in his voice.
"Then…" John's voice dragged on as he rocked on his heels and looked nervous. He was nervous. Sherlock put that in mind and continued his ice cold stare on John. "Why does the fact that I might be in love bother you?"
Sherlock walked around the tiny crammed living room, ever-lasting smirk on his face. "Perhaps, I do not clearly understand human emotions and feelings, but shouldn't the one being loved know about this?" Sherlock stopped his strolling, stopped right in front of John and managed an arched brow before sputtering the sentence out.
"How did you" John replied at his instinct, before suddenly closing his mouth and realizing that it was too late, that the high functioning sociopath had already deduced his uncontrollable love over him. He turned around, (probably ashamed or embarrassed, Sherlock decided) before walking to the doorway, grabbing his coat and was about to open the door and walk straight out before he turned back to Sherlock and starred at him.
He opened his mouth but the words won't come out.
"Cat got your tongue?" Sherlock offered. He read about how idioms and puns could ease people's nerves and help them relax. John might be one of those people.
"Don't you dare tell Mrs. Hudson about this." John managed to say mutter these words out before hurrying through doorway, disappearing down the stairs, not bothering to close the door (or slam the door in Sherlock's face) before he left.
And Sherlock? He still had the nerves to follow John to the staircase and yelling down "Do you like me?"
All he could heard was Mrs. Hudson's happy yelping owl y sound.
#
John came home after several hours to find Sherlock lounging on his armchair, wearing that plum colored (Sherlock said it's scarlet) dressing robe and smoking.
"Mrs. Hudson was waiting downstairs when I got home." John said, walking towards Sherlock until he was towering over him. " She budged me to stay for biscuit and tea, while questioning me whether we are ending our relationship and moving out." Sherlock puffed out a breath of smoke.
"Go on."
"And she also recommended a restaurant that we can go to, you know, to sort things out." John starched his head uncomfortable."
"By which you mean?" Sherlock eyed him lazily and continued his pose on the sofa.
John leaned down until he was just inches away from Sherlock's face. "We need to talk. About this."
