Sherlock and John entered Baker Street after a long case only to find boxes lined against the wall, john was a bit confused, sherlock rolled his eyes he thought he had told Mrs Hudson not to rent the downstairs flat he didn't need more distractions. Sherlock was about to head up to his flat when he was jumped on by a husky dog to be exact. Sherlock just stared at the dog who was sitting on him licking his face, John Watson let out a laugh before trying to remove the dog in question.
"SCOTTY" a female voice shouted, "off I am so sorry Hannah your dog sitting on our neighbour".
"what?" another voice shouted.
"scotty is sitting on our neighbours" the female said again, Sherlock noticed the women's shoes he took note they were practice but smart.
Hannah appeared and grabbed scotty dragging him off sherlock, Sherlock sat up he took notice of girls, one was medium hight, had long dark curly natural hair and dark red glasses that framed her dark eyes, the other was same hight a bigger build and had light straight brown hair.
"I apologize Scotty just learning new bounders hi I'm kiera this is Hannah" kiera told him offering Sherlock a hand up,
Sherlock shrugged it out deducing the lady in front of him he got up and started at them. "You both come from Wales Hannah home town by the guess if her accent and you kiera you lived in Wales but was not born there you have a London twang to your accent, both moved recently Hannah by the looks of it has a small business animal related from the fact she has a dog and a book on running a pet shop a big gamble in London. As for you kiera I am going to say you work in an office easy transfer for you, but there something I am not getting and it…" sherlock was cut off by john.
"uhh what he means is hi I'm john and this bean pole is…"
"Oh your Sherlock Holmes consult detective. nice to meet you and yes, I was born London. Umm again sorry for scotty" kiera said with a smile she clipped her hair up and picked up a box.
Sherlock left climbing the stairs he left john to do the chit chatter, john smiled at them before joining sherlock he hopped he didn't scare them away, maybe he should by them noise cancelling headphones. In 221b sherlock was on his phone he looked up as john put the kettle on he ignored them trying to and a case but instead had his brother message he threw his phone down.
"The girls seem nice" John said setting a cup of tea next to sherlock " I might pop down see if they need help"
"hmmm I think they are hiding thing, but go ahead don't sleep with them that make this worse" Sherlock told him flopping on the sofa.
"I'm sure you figure it out oh great one" John told him laughing "after all, you had a husky on you"
Xxx
Hannah and Kiera were nearly done unpacking, another 12 boxes to go and they would be fully moved in, they were laughing at Scotty's antics as he was jumping in and out of empty Boxes laying around. Hannah was busy setting up her bedroom while kiera carried in the kitchen she was munching on a cheese sandwich that Mrs Hudson made them. Kiera liked the landlady she was sweet and loved scotty straight away.
"Hello" John called as he popped his head round the door.
"in the kitchen" kiera yelled "careful scotty in boxes".
John was impressed with the flat Mrs Hudson she done the flat in lovely colours purples and blacks, as john walked further in he spotted the Husky jump out of a box and bond to him and followed him to the kitchen as kiera put the last plate in the cupboard.
"how's it going?" John asked
"good we nearly finished we decided where things were going beforehand" kiera told the good doctor.
"that's good, I came down to see if you want help" John explained.
Kiera smiled she told john that he could start flat packing the boxes as it would help greatly, Scotty was helping and demanded to be fussed.
"oh you want fussy do you huh" John fussed the dog who loved it.
"attention whore that one" Hannah said startling john he smiled at Hannah "thanks for flat packing our boxes that saved time"
"any time.. I'm sorry about sherlock" John said, "he a show off, uhh he also a bit"
"it fine kiera a forensic detective I'm used to the odd things".
John nodded he didn't take kiera as working for the police he could see her more in an office or shop, now looking at kiera he could see it, also smirked as sherlock has it wrong she wasn't an office gal he was going to be shocked when he found out. A few hours later John went back to his flat leaving kiera and Hannah with pizza.
"what time will you be finished tomorrow?" Hannah asked taking a bite of food.
"Around 1, I'm only filling out paperwork to finish my transfer, get my new work phone and find my shift patten you know when I'm on call" kiera yawned stretching "I'm heading to bed night"
Xxx
Hannah watched kiera get ready to leave the next day her thick hair was pulled into a bun, she was wearing a bright red coat, kiera wrapped a black scarf around her neck she patted Scotty who was laying near the door she then left the warm of 221 and went in to the cold air of London, Hannah chuckled as she spotted kiera lists, kiera was a bit of an over organized person sometimes, she picked it up only to find it the shopping list she chuckled and pocket it.
Kiera was finished just before one she pockets her work phone and thanked her new boss Greg Lestrade, he had lovely told her just to ignore sherlock but be near him if she wanted a Taxi. Kiera was promoted she was shocked about that; everyone was nice she found Anderson a bit creepy, but she hoped they would get on. Kiera was put on day shift for tomorrow which she was happy about meant she could do more organizing, as she walked closer to the tube station she heard her phone ring, she frowned when she saw private caller flash on her screen".
"Hello?" kiera spoke pulling her scarf up.
"miss Phillips there be black car pulling up to, please get in" a deep voice said. Kiera turned as a black car pulled up, she gulped.
"Why should i? I don't know who you are so I will not step in the car good day sir" kiera went to hang up.
"Miss Phillips if I can direct you attention to the camera above you" kiera looked up "to the left" the camera moved "to the right" the camera moved again "miss phillips please step into the car".
Kiera sighed as the phone went dead she decided to get into the car at least it was warmer as she sat down she was shocked to see Hannah.
"he got you to" kiera asked
"yep" Hannah popped the P "don't bother with the phone lady she want talk to you"
kiera shrugged and looked out the window, both girls were led into a room in a warehouse after the car stopped, kiera noticed a man was standing well leaning on an umbrella wearing a posh suit, kiera and Hannah stopped looking at him kiera noticed the suit was expensive but it suited him his eyes was similar to some kiera knew.
"hello miss Phillips, Miss McFetrich, both of you just recently moved to London from Wales to be more exact you moved into baker street. Do you know a Sherlock Holmes" the man spoke he watched as both girls started.
"who are you" Hannah broke the silence
"a concerned party" he spoke.
"how do we know you not a serial killer" Hannah asked looking at kiera to do something.
"He not are you Mr Holmes" kiera spoke putting her hands behind her back
"how do you know that miss phillips" Mr Holmes spoke he looked at kiera.
"your eyes slimer to sherlock but no I'm not a deduce like your brother I was warned by a Greg Lestrade" kiera told him she smirked at his face.
"correct miss phillips so back to my brother I want you to keep an eye on him I will pay you" Mycroft told them.
"no thank you" kiera said " I will take no part"
"Nobel to be so loyal.. how about you miss McFetrich" Mycroft asked he was now looking at the other girl.
"yeah I'll will do it" Hannah told him
"what he our neighbour" kiera snapped.
"Yes! I have bills to pay and the shop to think about" Hannah told her
"right, fine, I don't want to be here while you discuss the details. I'm guessing that the car you got us in will take us back" kiera asked looking at Mycroft.
"yes Miss Phillips"
"It Kiera" kiera snapped at him "you know it so use it"
"yes my car will take you back kiera after I sorted out the details with miss McFetrich, and it Mycroft kiera enjoy your new job, and tell Lestrade I speak to him soon" Mycroft told kiera retreating form
Hannah finished and joined kiera in the car it was a quite trip back to baker street, kiera was putting the key in the lock of 221 she gasped when it opened reviling sherlock.
"did you take the money" was all he said.
"Speak to Hannah" was all kiera said walking past sherlock. 

