Just a glimpse into what John has to put up with these days.
"That's not possible. Alistair McNair said that Rueford was performing then. He couldn't have been seen at the crime scene. He can't have been in two places at once. Not unless…"
"No, John. I've told you a hundred times; it is 
 twins."
Sherlock Holmes barely looked up at me as he shut down my unspoken suggestion. I'd long ago become used to being ignored or dismissed when he was focused on other things, but the picture before me still wasn't something I'd have ever expected.
He had one baby curled up against his chest and a second one in her carrier at his elbow. His focus hadn't been on me in some time as he stroked his son's soft curls and made faces at his smiling daughter.
"Are you kidding me? You can't use that anymore."
He looked up at me long enough for his piercing eyes to narrow in slight confusion. "When, in our thousands of cases together, has it 
 been twins? Despite the fact that you suggest it as a solution thirty percent of the time?" Sherlock turned back to his baby girl as if sharing a look of long-suffering bafflement at my stupidity.
I gave him a baffled look of my own and rocked my eyes between the two children sharing his chair. "I can think of one fairly significant time, yes."
"Nope," he countered, popping the word. "They're not a case. Their mother insists." The way his lips quirked after that statement suggested that Molly's words were being taken out of context so that Sherlock wouldn't have to give up his favorite (ridiculous) assertion.
"Even so," I tried again, "you do have to admit that it is 
 twins." I nodded my head pointedly at the two infants.
The boy sighed in his sleep and curled a tight fist into the fabric of Sherlock's dress shirt. The girl latched five tiny fingers around one of her father's. They reminded me of Rosie at that age, only a few short years ago. They were precious and miraculous and according to their father: near about impossible.
What a sham. Sherlock Holmes could be an incredible annoyance and a right arse about some things. He could also lie with the best of them. But not about this. Love for them was written on every one of his features.
He smiled a little, and it hardly seemed as though his answer was meant for me. "Yes. Sometimes."
Footsteps sounded on the landing, and the babe in Sherlock's arms seemed to wake to them. "Hello," Molly Holmes called softly into the room. Both babies shifted at the sound of their mother's voice, and I watched Sherlock unfiltered - relaxed, at home, in love.
"How were they?" Molly asked, shucking her coat and reaching for her now awake son.
"Excellent," Sherlock responded, moving the baby gently into her hold. "They rested well and show improved tracking of movements and sound."
Molly smiled and nuzzled her son's nose. She turned my way. "John?"
Her request was both a collaboration of the report and a running joke between us. "Really excellent," I confirmed. "One of them was a bit demanding, but that's to be expected."
Sherlock's head shot up in his children's defense. "What? Which of them? What did they do that you thought…" Realization dawned and he deadpanned, "Oh, you mean me." He rolled his eyes, and Molly chuckled.
She perched on the arm of his chair and kissed his cheek. Sherlock couldn't succeed in staying mad, even in charade. Words he'd spoken to me more than once over the years seemed especially apt now. Once the impossible has been eliminated, whatever remains - however improbable - must be the truth.
Well, a domestic Sherlock Holmes, husband of his favorite pathologist and father of twins, could certainly be counted as improbable. The odds of this outcome would have made even the most reckless gambler rethink their life choices. But as I looked on this happy little family, I wasn't sure I'd ever encountered a more beautiful truth.
Thanks for reading! Reviews are my very favorite :)
