They meet when he's 18, angry and bitter about having an unwanted destiny forced upon him, hurling the hated sword into the placid waters of the first lake his horse stops to drink from.
The sword never touches the water; a hand rises from beneath the silvery surface, a woman's hand, pale and slender, grasping the hilt and holding it upright as lightly as if it weighed nothing.
(
)
As suddenly as the hand appears, it vanishes, slipping back beneath the water's surface with nary a ripple, until all he sees is the blade, and then only its tip, and then nothing. He waits warily; when nothing happens, he shrugs and turns back to his steed, whose only reaction to all of this has been to drink eagerly. Barbarossa isn't pleased to have his head raised and body turned back toward the moor; he lets out a disgruntled nicker, jerks his head beneath Sherlock's hand, and it's then that he hears her voice.
"The sword Excalibur," she says, not smoothly but with hesitant pauses between words, "is yours, King William. You drew it from the stone -"
"Anvil," he corrects her shortly, then turns to look at her.
He sums her up with the flick of an eyelash. She's as far from the romantic notions of a water spirit as he is from anyone's idea of a king - least of all, he thinks sourly, his own. Legends and fairy tales say she should be tall and stately (
), slender, with regal bearing (
). Her eyes should be blue (
) and her features perfect (
).
He ignores the pucker between her eyebrows in order to continue his summation of her features. Hair that should be trailing in the water, long and flowing like a waterfall to the edges of her kirtle (
) instead ends somewhere in the middle of her back. It should also, he notes critically, be the reddish-gold of a newly minted coin instead of mousy brown. Nor should it be plastered to her head, with what look like strands of duckweed tangled within it as if she were the mere country wench her clothing declares her to be, caught in the midst of a morning swim.
A peasant girl who'd somehow managed to catch his sword as he flung it towards the murky depths of this lonely body of water, intending that it never be found again, by him or anyone else.
He gives a mental snort. No, he thinks bitterly, Fate or the Devil or whoever had cursed him onto this path would never allow such a thing.
Spirit or mere mortal, the girl blinks at the interruption, then continues doggedly on, as if reciting a memorized speech she's being forced to give against her will. "You drew it from the 
, which was set atop the 
with Excalibur through both, and that means you're the true King of the British Isles."
She stops abruptly, thrusting the sword at him as if impatient for him to be on with it and leave her to her watery world. "Take it," she says, impatiently, but with a hint of desperation in her voice that piques his curiosity more than any question as to her potential otherworldly antecedents.
"What if I don't?" he asks, folding his arms - awkward to do in armor, but he manages.
She gives him what can only be described as an annoyed look, once again allowing the tip of the sword to droop toward the water. "Then I suppose I have to keep it until you die and the 
True King of the British Isles is born and reaches manhood and finds his way here to claim it."
"You 
?" He knows he sounds incredulous, and he is. How can she not know what happens if he doesn't claim the sword? Maybe she really is just some eccentric peasant girl playing games with him.
No. His eyes stray downward as she lifts her skirts just the slightest bit, briefly revealing her calves and feet. At the sight of them he feels a sudden jolt of superstitious - not 
, certainly, but apprehension as he realizes that those small, pale, bare appendages haven't sunk into the mucky bottom of the lake. It's as if she's almost floating atop the mud, where he's sunk in nearly deep enough to cover his mail-clad toes.
And as much as he'd like to dismiss it as a matter of simple difference in weight between them…he 
.
While he continues to stare down at her feet - or rather, where her skirts once again trail over them - she speaks.
She shrugs. "I only know that only the One True King can claim the sword, whether from me or from an anvil on top of a stone, it doesn't really matter."
She sounds…he's not sure. He expected defeat or despair as she recited what sounded to him like a curse that had been laid upon her, but what he hears sounds closer to resignation.
Or is it possibly - indifference?
"And what happens if I take the sword?" he demands, various possibilities passing fleetingly through the back of his mind as he awaits her answer.
She gives him a sad smile. "Then you become the True King and I go back to watching fish and turtles and bugs live their busy underwater lives until they eventually die and sink to the muck at the bottom, leaving nothing but bones and shells and other bits and pieces of themselves behind."
"It sounds fascinating," he replies, surprised by his own sincerity.
Her eyes light up and she takes an eager step forward, the sword dangling almost forgotten in her hand. "Do you think so, truly? Because it really is fascinating! I mean, I've seen animals die but never really had the chance to study what was left behind - well, I lived on a farm and everything that died was generally eaten afterwards and the bones added to the midden or used for soup stock and my mother thought it was morbid that I wanted to know what happened when animals died, and forbade me to speak to the gravediggers or the village priest about whether human bodies decomposed in the same way, not that he would have answered me - Father Tomas, I mean; the gravediggers might have been willing…"
She stumbles to a halt as he stares at her, bemused and intrigued by her words. "So you were mortal, once?" She nods dumbly. Yes, a peasant wench, that certainly fits with his surmises. "And cursed to this existence?" She nods again. "By whom?"
Her face clouds, and she drags the sword upward, clutching to her chest in a protective gesture. "By my betrothed," she whispers, edging back away from him. Instinctively he moves toward her, splashing into the shallows, hearing his horse return to its interrupted drinking of the murky water.
"You were betrothed to a sorcerer?"
He's ankle deep in the water now, unheeding of the mud sucking at his boots. She's up to her calves, still backing away, when he reaches out impulsively and catches her arm.
She should be cold and clammy, but she's warm, and her breath catches as she stares at his fingers where they hold her in a firm grasp that he dimly hopes isn't hard enough to hurt her. He just isn't quite ready to let her go, not yet. Not until he hears the rest of her story. "Well?" he demands, staring intently into her eyes. "Was he?"
She nods. "Yes," she whispers, still staring up at him. "He called himself Richard Brook but I found him at one of his foul rituals after my father died." Her voice catches, and he can see she's choking back tears. "He'd taken one of my father's finger bones and laughed at me when I demanded he return it to his grave. It was only the third time we'd been alone together since we'd met and my father agreed to the betrothal, and I told him I would never marry him and he…he laughed again and told me that was fine, that I would be the instrument of his revenge instead."
Sherlock felt a coldness steal into his chest, and he forced his next words out through suddenly stiff lips. "His name was Moriarty," he says, and she nods, unsurprised at his knowing.
"We suspect he's the one who cursed my brother Mycroft, who was supposed to be the one drawing the bloody sword from that anvil," Sherlock snarled. "And forced me into seeing if I could draw it instead. He was there, taunting us, the bastard."
