It was the second day when they were in the bothy that she realised that there was more to looking after a sick Sherlock Holmes than she had ever envisioned. What had been romanticised in her head was very definitely not the reality of the situation she was founding herself in.
Sherlock was a horrible patient.
He was rude. He moaned. He was miserable. In all honesty, she couldn't take it anymore. So, she left him in his misery and went outside. Sat by the well while she tried to get her anger under control. It wasn't long before she heard his voice from the bothy. Calling for her. She hung her head. Pretended she didn't hear him. Wiped her face while she seriously contemplated just putting him out of his misery. Maybe then she'll have some peace and quiet.
How did John manage him, she wondered. She sighed when his voice drifted again from inside the bothy, forlorn and tired. She rose and made her way inside. Sat down by his side and placed the back of her hand against his forehead. He was still burning up. Droopy eyes blinked and he flopped a hand against hers, pushing it away.
"Where were you?" He somehow managed to ground out. She checked his line, satisfied to see that it was still intact. No ballooning skin, all flowing good as it should with gravity doing the work. She fiddled with the flow, watching the drops of antibiotics that were saving his life.
"Molly…" he shifted. Groaned and panted. "Sick…"
She grabbed the pan, watched as he threw up. Cleaned him as best she could, the smell of his vomit permeated the air. Again, she realised why she had chosen in the end to go into pathology. She grimaced as she left him again to clean out the pan away from the bothy. She washed it out by the well, leaving the bucket half perched on the wall. She bumped it as she rose from her position, shrieked as the cold water tipped onto her shirt and soaked her completely.
Sherlock called for her again as she stood there in front of the well in her soaked shirt with the vomit pan in her hand.
She screamed her frustration to the open air.
He was worse as the fever took hold. In the end she stripped him of everything and made him sit in front of the fire. He protested. Called her names. He got quite inventive, she had to give him that. More so than the time at his flat when he had compared the gift to the size of her breasts and mouth.
In the end she dumped the water over him with a hint of satisfaction. It was wrong and she definitely didn't have John's patience anymore. She knew she would've made a horrible doctor but she was also very certain that Sherlock would make anyone a horrible doctor.
It was only afterwards that she realised that she had made a mistake.
His pants were wet, soaked through from her action. He was flat out on the mattress again, hating her and begging for the blanket. There was nothing for it in the end. She closed her eyes and reached out with her hands, fingers fumbling along his skin until she skimmed over his wet pants.
"What are you doing?"
His voice was husky, shocking her to freeze, her hands over a suspicious bulge over his pants.
 She jerked her hands away and opened her eyes. He was glaring at her as much as it was possible with a fever and malaise that had left its mark on his face. Twin spots of red blush on his cheeks, a runny nose and teary eyes.
"You're wet." She said, "I need to get your pants off."
She felt the earth should reach up, open a hole and swallow her whole. Sherlock closed his eyes and swatted a hand towards her. "Fine. Don't look. And definitely no touching."
She rose. Anger was replacing the awkwardness of this situation. "You do it then."
He groaned. She turned her back and heard him move. A moment later the offending item fell at her feet and she bent down, picked it up with two fingers and quickly made her way outside.
She couldn't help herself.
She peeked.
At least he had turned half on his stomach. All she got a very brief eyeful of was his bum. She jerked the door open and was outside before she gave in completely. Sherlock was quiet. This time he didn't call for her for a long while.
At least his pants were dry by the time she got enough courage to return. She threw it in his direction, watching it land half on his head. She could see the grimace and she closed the door, hoping he got the message.
When she returned a short time later, he was dressed at least.
"I need to go."
His baritone was made hoarse with his fever. She sighed. It wasn't going to end. This embarrassment flows from one end to the other. Her silence might've been something more than she realised for Sherlock very slowly sat up. Moved himself into a standing position but he grimaced as his feet took his weight. He went white, all colour drained off him and he stumbled and then went down, sitting again.
"Sherlock…"
He had his head in his hands. The glint of the line snaking its way from his arm upwards evident. He swore. Looked away from her. She can't remember ever having heard him swear. It completely summed up their situation.
She got inventive. Took one of the water bottles outside. By the shed she found a rusted nail half sticking out and a torn fingernail later managed to unearth it. She cut through the plastic painfully until she had removed the top. Brought it back to Sherlock and turned her back to him while he relieved himself.
She threw the pee out beside his vomit. Wondered if they were going to kill the grass with his excretions as she washed out the bottle, knowing that they'll need it again.
She went inside to find him curled into a tight ball, not looking at her and not saying anything. What could she say that wouldn't make this any worse than it already was. So, she sat down beside him, suddenly aware that this was the most vulnerable she had ever seen him since she had known him. Even during earlier years when he had still gotten high. Even then he still had managed to somehow retain some semblance of himself and dignity.
Here he was, lying almost completely naked before her, peeing in a bottle and completely reliant on her. And it must kill him. She suddenly understood it. Her own frustration was still there but this…this was more than anyone could bear and her compassion rose its head.
"When we get home…" she started to say, unsure how to voice what she was just starting to think. He opened his eyes and watched her. She reached out a hand, pushed sweaty hair away from his forehead. Gathered her courage. "This will never be discussed. Ever."
He seemed to think about what she said. Blue eyes met brown; an understanding suddenly evident. A pact between them. He gave her a half nod. Closed his eyes again and drifted back into fever induced sleep.
She wished she could say it got better after that. But he was still rude. Still miserable. Still horrid but at least he was trying. She could see it in the name calling. In the way he allowed her to look after him. And she tried to be more understanding. More patient.
In the end, when the fever broke she knew one thing.
John was a saint. And she wasn't.
It was the beginning of the second week at the bothy when she realised that her patience was running even shorter than it usually did. A pimple popped up, she could feel it right by her hairline, still conspicuous enough to not be obvious but to her it was glaringly apparent. She just knew Oliver wasn't going to care about her monthly periods. Wasn't going to provide her what she needed.
Sherlock looked at her sideways and she blushed. They were sitting outside, away from the cameras on the inside. Side by side as they stared out at the vista. Trying to make sense of what the future was going to hold. It didn't look positive in any way. Oliver was clearly in control. And it was clear Sherlock didn't know what to do about it. A cramp started low and she pulled her legs up, rested her head on her knees while she tried her best to think of anything that could possibly be more embarrassing.
Nothing came to mind.
"Molly?" His rich baritone interrupted her thoughts. She looked sideways to find him inspecting her.
"What?" She just wasn't in the mood for any discussions.
"I can ask…" he swallowed. Continued to blunder straight into it. "…it's perfectly normal…and with loss of body fat…uhm…your period will stop."
She felt a blush push its way upwards, from her neck all the way up her face. She stared at him. Was it that obvious? Really? She rose and walked away. Down the little path that led away from the bothy. Her periods were definitely not something she was ever going to be discussing with Sherlock Holmes. She could feel his gaze on her as she walked away, the confused somewhat worried look on his face she knew he got when he didn't understand stuff people did. Like be embarrassed that a man you secretly had a crush on felt the need to discuss something this personal.
She walked a long while and then another cramp started. She squatted down, felt a wetness suspiciously start between her legs.
Tears flowed freely now while she stayed where she was. It was bloody unfair. She hoped Oliver died a painful death when John and Mycroft found them. In the end, she couldn't stay there so she walked awkwardly back to the bothy. Hoped to heaven that Sherlock was inside. He was nowhere in sight when she made it back but she found their towel and soap by the well and on top of both items…
Tears flowed afresh.
Sherlock Holmes had somehow fashioned usable pads.
She washed herself, washed her underwear and when everything was dry, did she try it. It worked surprisingly well. It was messy but better than nothing.
At the end, when her period was finished, and they were again sitting outside in the sun a few days later waiting for Oliver, did she turn to him.
"We will never talk about this. Ever."
He nodded, and was silent in his agreement. She had learned something then of him in this whole experience.
He wasn't such a bastard all the time.
Sometimes…he was actually considerate. And nice.
She lay in his arms. It was comforting. The fire was a warm glow in front of her and behind her was his body tight against hers. His arm over her stomach, holding her close. There wasn't much choice really, the mattress didn't allow for much more than spooning this way. Move a hand's breadth either way and you'd be on the floor and not on the mattress anymore. He was fast asleep, his breathing deep, his arm a dead weight across her body. She stared at the flames as it stuttered and flared.
Oliver wasn't kind. That much was evident. He had a streak of sadistic brutality in him that he tried to hide under a veneer of his intellect. But it was obvious to her in the way he was dealing with Sherlock. In the way he had smiled at her on that first day when he had apologised and then watched as his man beat her to a pulp.
No. Oliver wasn't nice.
It had been a month since they've now been at the bothy. She had learned to read Sherlock Holmes during this time. Had no choice really as they were in each other's company without fail. No choice really except for the times that Oliver took Sherlock away for one of his 'challenges'. She almost snorted at that thought. Oliver was enjoying himself. He clearly wanted Sherlock broken. Wanted Sherlock to fall in love with her. He had been open about that not so long ago, talking to her about it as if he was asking her to go out and buy some milk.
Well, she wasn't about to let that happen.
The infatuation she had was now completely flattened and crushed beneath the reality of living with Sherlock Holmes twenty-four seven. There were things she admired about him, yes and then there were the other side…the one that was rude and ignorant and selfish. She was less inclined to hold back now. Had learned to stand her ground with him.
She felt him move against her. Felt something growing…she froze. He was there next to her and then he wasn't. Rolled off the mattress and then he stood and was out the door before she could move. A blush was slowly creeping upwards when she realised what she had felt.
Not that she was too embarrassed.
Not really…okay wow.
At one stage she had wondered if he was normal in 
 regard. Sleeping this close to him and this was the first time…
She sat up, stared at the fire and tried not to let her imagination run away from her. Sternly told herself that whatever had happened was completely normal and she shouldn't read more into it than for what it was.
Yet still…a small smile crept across her face and she hid it behind a hand when she heard the door open.
"Uhm…I forgot to take the towel."
"Okay." She got up and grabbed their soap and the towel. Handed to him. He refused to look at her, hidden half behind the door that he kept as a barrier between them.
"Taboo topic?" She questioned with a small laugh.
"Number three is it?"
She laughed. It wasn't right and she shouldn't but there was so little to laugh about. He grimaced and then disappeared, closing the door behind him.
She realised something then.
Sherlock was human after all.
"I got one!"
She stepped out the bothy, watching Sherlock approach her with a grin on his face. He was losing weight. She could see it in the way his cheekbones jutted out. On the way he notched his belt. Oliver wasn't giving them enough food. He was starving them. Sherlock had asked Oliver once for more food and the result had been a locked bothy and the removal of all their earthly possessions. It had taken two weeks before they had gotten everything back and had cost Sherlock.
So they were trying their best to see how they could supplement their diet. They had tried eating some of the grasses as fibre. That hadn't gone well. The stomach cramps had been horrendous and the diarrhoea that followed had been less than pleasant. Both of them in the end had chosen spots well away from the bothy and had stayed there in their misery until things had quieted down.
Sherlock had a new plan. The surrounding grassland and the woodshed held an assortment of rodents. She wasn't sure yet how she felt about that but again had never thought she'd be hungry enough to eat rats. He held one, swinging by its tail in his hand. He looked immensely proud of himself and she grinned, despite the ridiculousness of their situation.
"Now what?" She asked.
He shrugged his shoulders. "You're the pathologist."
She raised an eyebrow at that. "Humans, Sherlock. I cut up humans…" the moment she said it, she realised what she was saying and how it would sound to any normal sane person out there in the real world. Sherlock chuckled and then she giggled. Couldn't help it.
"Number four?" He asked.
"Definitely."
They put the old rusty nail in the fire, watched it burn and used the sharped point to cut through the rat's guts. Cleaned it as best they could.
It was very slim pickings in the end. They almost burned the meat, trying to make sure that it was sterilised enough.
Considering their hunger – it wasn't too bad in the end.
"It's well and truly stuck, Sherlock."
"Okay, let me wiggle a little. See if I can get it loose."
"No…not that way. You need to go deeper. Just. Dammit Sherlock. That's too big."
"Make up your mind, woman. Faster or slower, it doesn't matter. We're going to get it all the way in the end."
She stood up. Held the makeshift pan in her hands. Sherlock stood over a new hole they were digging. It was on the slight inclination behind the bothy, well away but still within Oliver's rules on how far Sherlock was allowed to wander. It was their designated toilet area and they had to re-dig a new hole every few weeks or so. A rock was stuck in the pit they were digging and they were trying to wiggle it loose enough to remove it. Sherlock had built them a toilet seat out of some of the logs and they moved them around each new pit. They filled it with soil when it reached 'critical' level which according to Sherlock was three quarters of the way. It was a messy business but they had no choice. After four months it had become second nature now.
"Wiggle it to the left and lift it while I try to wedge the pan in."
He grunted and did as she asked. There wasn't enough room to manoeuvre but they somehow managed. The rock seemed solid, about the size of a three-litre soup pot.
"Okay, nice and steady. Use an up and down motion. That should get it unstuck."
Sherlock suddenly burst out laughing next to her. Sat back on the grass and roared with laughter. She frowned. Wondered what was wrong. He calmed down, wiped tears from his eyes and looked at her.
"Molly, did you hear yourself?"
"What?"
His eyebrows raised and he waited while she went over their conversation. Realised what it sounded like.
"Oh…"
She giggled. Sat down beside them, her feet dangling in what would soon become a new toilet pit.
"Topic 5?" Sherlock asked.
"Yeah…if this ever got out. Can you imagine Mycroft's face…"
This brought a new wave of laughter from Sherlock. "Can you imagine him here doing this?" He said. Chuckled.
She shook her head. The camaraderie was good and she leaned her head on his shoulder. He tilted his head, so that they touched. It was …good.
They were still capable of laughter, even here. And that had to be good.
She chose to believe it.
