„Jooooohnnn, I'm dying ", Sherlock whined from the couch. John sighed. It had been a long day, in fact a long week of long days and the sooner it ended the better.
"I told you like ten times already Sherlock, you are not dying, you just have the flu", John replied, voice filled with frustration. In retrospective he should have seen this coming. Of course, Sherlock would turn out to be the most difficult patient he had ever treated. John rubbed his temples; he was getting a headache that had nothing to do with the germ spreading detective in the living room. He could hear Sherlock coughing in the other room and to be fair it sounded rather painful, but Sherlock had brought this onto himself and with every day of whining and complaining John's empathy kept shrinking.
"You know, you are the worst doctor ever", Sherlock said, voice scratchy, "you should be treating me, make this all go away but you just enjoy seeing my misery".
John rolled his eyes, entering the living room with a mug of tea he placed next to Sherlock on the table.
"Like I said to you already, Sherlock, you have the flu, there is no treatment other than rest and to support your body with enough fluids and food", John said, not caring enough to hide his annoyance, "and I already gave you something for your fever and headache and as you can see made you some tea for your sore throat. You will feel better soon, but only if you keep resting".
"I have been lying on this couch for three days now, three days John!", Sherlock protested angrily, "it's boring and dull and I really just want to do something other than being forced to lay down and wait. I can't do this anymore. Do you not see that this is torture?!"
John let out another desperate sigh. It wasn't the first time they had this conversation.
"Shall I remind you how you ended on the couch in the first place", John replied, "you brought this upon yourself. Besides, I don't believe you are actually up to anything else than lying down right now. You look like you still feel pretty awful".
"Blaming the patient, another symptom of being a bad doctor", Sherlock retorted.
"You collapsed Sherlock!", John argued back, "and you know damn well why! It was your decision not to sleep, eat or drink at all during your last case. It's really no surprise your body couldn't go on like this. If I'm the worst doctor you are definitely the worst patient!".
It was true. Three days ago, after finally finishing his very exhaustive case, Sherlock had literally collapsed in their living room. He been trying to get to the bathroom but as soon as he had gotten up from his armchair, his legs had buckled, and his eyes had rolled into the back of his head. He had given John quite the scare, after the other discovered his flatmate lying unconscious on the ground, burning up with a fever. John had helped Sherlock to the couch and made sure he stayed there, while he checked him over. His diagnosis was a fast and easy one: a semi-severe case of the flu, caused by his weakened immune system due to his poor self-care. Nothing dangerous itself but keeping Sherlock resting proofed to be more complicated than John had expected. Although he knew Sherlock must feel like shit, his primary mission seemed to be making John as miserable as possible. First, he had entered phase one: denial, presenting with protesting that he was fine before they reached phase two, the whining and complaining. John wasn't looking forward to phase three.
"Fine, if you don't want to help me, just leave me alone", Sherlock pouted, turning around so that John was now facing his back.
John sighed for what felt like the hundredth time and walked back into the kitchen, intending to prepare something to eat for Sherlock. Even though he had told Sherlock multiple times that he needed to eat something, the other refused, claiming that he wasn't hungry. Figuring he couldn't go wrong with some soup, John went ahead and started cooking. Half an hour later, soup almost finished, he was disturbed by Sherlock coughing in the other room. At first, he ignored it but when the coughing fit didn't seem to end, his worry took over and he quickly went to check on his friend. Sherlock was lying on his back now, coughing horribly, apparently struggling to breath properly.
"Sherlock!", John exclaimed urgently, rushing to his side and trying to get him to sit up straight, "come one, you have to sit up if you want to breathe easier".
Sherlock blindly reached for John as the other repositioned him so that he was now leaning with his back against the couch. Finally, the coughing ended but Sherlock still gasped for air.
"Easy Sherlock", John coached, "in and out, you'll be okay".
Sherlocks breathing calmed and he looked at John with his unusual pale face and glassy, slightly teary eyes. John gently rubbed Sherlocks shoulder to calm his apparently still agitated friend.
"Feeling better now?", John asked. Sherlock nodded hesitantly.
"Good, try to sit like this for a little longer, it will be easier to breathe for you", John suggested, frustration and annoyance no longer present in his voice.
"John, I…", Sherlock started, voice still raspy, "I really feel like shit".
John couldn't suppress a little laugh at this utterly innocent statement.
"Yeah, I can imagine, you look like shit too", John replied chuckling. At this Sherlock rolled his eyes before he started rubbing his temples. So, his head still hurts, John thought. He could feel Sherlock shivering next to him and wrapped the blanket around his friends' shoulders.
"Stay here", he ordered gently, "the fever reducers should have worn off by now and I want to check your temperature".
For once, Sherlock didn't protest. John wasn't sure if this was a good or a bad sign. He was even more surprised when Sherlock didn't protest while John took his temperature.
"38.8", John announced, "that's still too high but better than yesterday". Sherlock said nothing. John handed him a glass of water.
"Drink", he said, and Sherlock complied.
"I made some soup", John continued, "you think you're up to eating?"
Sherlock just kind of shrugged and John actually started worrying, not used to a quiet detective.
"You haven't lost your voice, have you?", he asked, attempting to joke but couldn't entirely hide his concern.
"Of course, not", Sherlock rasped back, "ever considered that talking isn't exactly the nicest thing to do, when your throat is burning like hell".
As Sherlock shot him his typical 
, John actually felt relieved. He looked sympathetically at Sherlock and said: "Soup will help with that, I'll get you some"
He went to the kitchen and returned with two steaming bowls, that he placed on the table in front of the couch before he sat back down next to Sherlock. For a while they both ate in silence, John really relieved that Sherlock would finally eat something. Although it looked like swallowing still hurt Sherlock, he finished half of his soup before putting the bowl back down.
"Did the soup help?", John asked.
"Well it didn't poison me", Sherlock replied crossing his arms. John knew that this was his way of saying yes and thank you.
"Good, there is more if you want some later", John said smiling a little. He noticed that Sherlock appeared tired, as he seemed to struggle with keeping his eyes open.
"You should try and sleep for a bit", he suggested.
"Not that tired", Sherlock protested, although it sounded weak. Great, the stubbornness was returning, John thought to himself.
"Amuse me then", John proposed and got up to clear out the bowls and give Sherlock enough space to lie down again. After a moment of hesitation, Sherlock stretched down on the couch again.
"John…", he almost whispered, John turned around, "could you… would you…stay?" Sherlock didn't meet his eyes and John knew he was embarrassed asking such a question. His coughing earlier must have shaken him more than he wanted to admit.
"Course", John replied, not wanting to make a big deal out of this so he simply grabbed a chair and placed it next to the couch near Sherlocks head.
"I still hate this, and I'm still bored", Sherlock half-heartly complained, his voice filled with tiredness.
"Well Sherlock I guess you just have to live with it", John retorted, "we all get sick, and after all you are just as human as the rest of us".
"How dare you say something like this", Sherlock protested, pretending to be offended. They both had to laugh, but Sherlock's laugh sounded rather painful therefore John suggested: "You should really get some sleep".
Although Sherlock rolled his eyes again, he readjusted his blanket and buried himself deeper into the cushions of the couch.
With his eyes already closed he said:" You know John, maybe you aren't the worst doctor in the entire world".
John smiled to himself before he said: "Oh but you are definitely the worst patient!"
He could see a small smile on Sherlocks face before the other fell asleep and the flat was finally quiet. Maybe phase three wasn't so bad.
