"Sherlock? What on earth are you doing here?" Mycroft asked calmly as he stepped into his office and found his brother lying across the sofa in the corner of the room. Sherlock didn't reply immediately and watched Mycroft move across the room to put his belongings away.
"Lestrade told me everything." Sherlock replied a couple of minutes later breaking the silence. Mycroft froze and slowly put down the tea he was preparing to turn to his brother. "Gregory spoke to you?" Mycroft questioned slowly, watching Sherlock who moved into a sitting position. "Of course, he spoke to me. You've been acting even stranger than usual lately and your husband was worried. Worried enough that he came to 
for help
" Sherlock said sternly and stared at his brother.
"Even I understand how bad the situation is there Mycroft." Sherlock admitted. This never happened, if there was something wrong with Mycroft, Sherlock would usually be the one going to Lestrade for help, never, never, the other way round, so this was a very new situation they were in.
Mycroft continued to say nothing and stared at Sherlock. "We can wait here all day, but at some point, you're going to have to tell someone what's going on and we both know it's going to be me, otherwise you would have already spoken to your other half." Sherlock explained waving his hand absently and Mycroft turned around collected his cup and moved to sit behind his desk.
They continued to sit in silence for a few moments before Mycroft let out a heavy sigh, and signalled to Sherlock that he was about to speak. "It's this adoption business." He admitted and Sherlock sat upright, he'd already made an educated guess as to what the issue would be, but Mycroft had to admit it first before all the knowledge fell into place.
"I thought, you and Lestrade had agreed on this. You both want this." Sherlock replied and there was another sigh from Mycroft and Sherlock was worried, his brother usually had far better control of his emotions in every situation. "We did, we do, at least, I want this for him. He'll be an unbelievable father." Mycroft admitted and Sherlock nodded in understanding, this was an easy one.
"You don't think you have the same abilities?" Sherlock questioned, holding back a smile, he didn't need his brother to see him smiling whilst he was in a crisis. "I believe that Lestrade has all the needed qualities for a father, I'm unsure of my role." Mycroft explained and Sherlock had to look away from his brother for a moment.
"I don't approve of what I'm about to tell you, but it's going to be the truth." Sherlock said as he stood and strode across the room and came to stand in front of Mycroft's desk. "You have the ability to be an outstanding father. You have shown all the needed qualities on me. I've seen first-hand, just how well of a father you can be. A child would be unbelievably lucky to have youas their parent." Sherlock finished and stared at Mycroft, trying to convey through looks alone how truthful he was being. Ever since he was a boy Sherlock had always known Mycroft would be there, for anything and he always was, he'd never once been let down by his brother and he was sure that any future child, would find out themselves that Mycroft would move the moon to love and care for them and give them everything they could possibly need.
"Now please speak to Lestrade, because he's going to be bothering me and I highly dislike that sort of behaviour from the man." Sherlock explained and waited a beat, then two and finally Mycroft left a grin spread across his face. "Thank you, Sherlock." He says honestly and Sherlock just nods and turns to head for the door. He pauses for a moment and turns back to his brother.
"Mycroft." He says and the older man turns to look at him. "Thank you for being there for me." Sherlock says flooring Mycroft for a moment. "You're welcome." He replies and Sherlock lets a smile slip onto his face as he leaves the room. Once Mycroft has got over Sherlock's emotional outburst he picks up his phone and dials a number he knows by heart.
"Gregory. I think we have something we must discuss."
