Sherlock Holmes was having a surprisingly enjoyable day, considering his John was working. Little Watson was having her nap, Mrs. Hudson had made him tea, and he was looking over some evidence from a cold case, which he had 
 (read - stolen), from Scotland Yard. Alas, this peace was not to last, as the enjoyable Tuesday afternoon was ruined by an angry banging on the door. Sherlock sighed, and endeavoured to ignore the disturbance.
Unfortunately, Mrs. Hudson - as worried about property damage as ever - bustled to the door to answer it. She was met by a hoard of eager police officers and an apologetic look from Lestrade holding up a piece of paper - a warrant to search the premises. Drugs bust, apparently. Poor Mrs. Hudson moved to let them in, worry clearly etched into her features. Oh Sherlock, what had he done now?
Sherlock grunted in annoyance as he heard half a dozen feet trundle up the stairs towards his flat. How annoying, they probably wanted the files back. Honestly, if you don't want people to borrow things, don't leave them lying around!*
* Note - lying around in a locked office in a building full of police officers
The door burst open with a bang, and no less than six people flooded into the room. Two officers he'd seen around a few crime scenes (and may have insulted slightly) but didn't know the names of, Dimmock, Donovan, Anderson and finally D.I. George Lestrade.
"What are you doing here, Lestrade?" asked Sherlock drily, despite already knowing the answer.
"Drugs bust" came the cheerful reply.
"I'll be taking those, thank you" said Gerry, scooping one set of illegally obtained crime evidence from the table in front of Sherlock.
"Now, where's the rest of it?"
The D.I. simply got a smug smirk in return, as Sherlock then stalked to the kitchen to pluck a metacarpal bone from between the gloved fingers of Sergeant Sally Donovan, and promptly returned it to its previous location in a milk jug full of bleach.
Lestrade merely sighed, he'd expected this really.
"Right everyone, search the other rooms, if we don't return all of this by tonight the Chief Superintendant will have all of our heads".
Sherlock grunted once more, but made no effort to stop the search until he saw Donovan heading for the stairs.
"Where are you going?" he demanded as he followed her onto the landing.
"To see what you're hiding up there, freak"
"No!" he boomed, making a beeline for the stairs and ascending them at speed.
"You are NOT coming in here"
Anderson came up beside Donovan, determined to support his lover, and the two of them climbed the steps towards the detective.
"Move aside, psychopath, or is this where you keep the bodies?" asked Anderson, scathingly.
"The stuff is in the washing machine, okay? Now please leave!"
All six of the yarders were shocked at this admittance, Sherlock Holmes had never told them where to find his play things before, even to get them to leave him alone. This made the rest of them as suspicious as Donovan and Anderson, even the ever-patient Lestrade.
"Sherlock," began the D.I. cautiously, "What's this about?"
Then a small whine broke the yarders from their musings, and startled Sherlock from his defensive stance. Sally and Philip wasted no time in pushing Sherlock aside and barging into the room behind him. Even their rumour spreading fantasies had not prepared them for the sight before them; the pair burst into the room and were met with a shrill scream and a flurry of movement. Donovan surveyed the room. It was plain, with only a skylight for a window, and a small glowing lamp in the corner. She flicked on the main light switch to illuminate her surroundings, and looked around at the wardrobe, bedside table and double bed in the centre, with rumpled sheets. She hastily went to look under the bed, almost scared to confirm what she had been saying about the Freak for years, albeit not 
 seriously. Scared to find the owner of the scream, scared to know what that perverted psychopath really had been doing right under their noses.
She knelt down on the floor and gently peered under the bed and was horrified to have her suspicions confirmed: a little girl was under the bed. A little girl being kept up here by none other than their resident freak. She honestly felt sick to her stomach that she hadn't tried harder to have her concerns taken seriously over the past years, she'd 
 that there was something going on, yet sat back and allowed others to overrule her, allowed this poor girl to be kidnapped and probably tortured. It was at this moment that Sally Donovan really did not know if she could ever forgive herself. She looked at the girl with what she hoped was a friendly expression on her face, she looked at the blonde curls, big blue eyes and red, tear stained cheeks. She took a deep breath and then tried to actually do her job.
"Sweetie, I'm Sally, I'm a police lady, will you come here and let me help you?"
The girl nodded mutely and began to shuffle out of her hiding place. Sally popped up from the edge of the bed and scooped the child up as soon as she'd crawled out from underneath. Anderson gasped and gestured towards Sherlock, now staring in horror at the scene in front of him.
"Did he…" asked Anderson, shutting up in response to Donovan's pointed look, he understood, don't talk about the Freak, it will only harm the poor kid more.
Sherlock snapped out of his horror and stepped towards Donovan angrily.
"Put. Her. Down." he demanded, in a quiet yet incredibly dangerous tone, a terrifying glint appearing in his eye. Nobody interfered with his family. No one.
Donovan merely clasped the girl tighter, muttering "come on, Sweetie" before rushing past the man and rushing downstairs with the girl, leaving Anderson to fight off the deranged detective.
She ran into the main room, calling for her boss as she went.
"Lestrade, he had a girl up there, we have to do something!"
Lestrade turned round with a sigh, expecting another of Sally's ludicrous tales, but stopped short when he caught sight of the child in her arms.
He gulped audibly.
"Sally, who is that?"
"I don't know, sir, Holmes was keeping her upstairs. I found her under the bed."
Lestrade's thoughts turned dark. Through all the years he had known Sherlock, he had trusted the man. He was rude, abrasive and incredibly egotistical, but he'd never taken him for a bad person, just an unlikeable one. Hell, he'd even enjoyed the man's company at crime scenes, what with his entertaining ramblings and incredible deductions, the man was almost tolerable. Especially when he brought his friend, the good doctor along. He'd never even entertained the thought that Donovan, Anderson and many others could actually have truth in their outlandish stories about the psychopathic tendencies of the generally hated detective, but faced with the evidence in front of him, he was beginning to realise that he had made a grave error. Sherlock Holmes was a kidnapper. What for, he did not yet know, he could only hope the man hadn't hurt her too badly. God forbid he was a paedophile. Heavens, how could he ever forgive himself?
Sherlock ran down the stairs at the assembled police officers, barely containing his fury.
"Donovan, I told you to put her down!" he shouted. Unfortunately for all involved, especially Sherlock, emotions were one of the few things that Sherlock truly could not understand, even after constant trying. It was this issue that led to the detective spending so much of his brain power worrying about the welfare of the little girl in his care, and how to avoid making her upset, that he never thought to simply call John.
Lestrade really wanted the man he had trusted to be innocent, he really did, but how could he be? According to Anderson, who had come down after Sherlock and was now muttering the state of upstairs to him, the room was clearly not built for a child. It was a tiny room for the occasional visitor, nothing more. There was even a lock on the door (although nobody stopped to consider the fact that the door hadn't actually been locked, even if it could have been), and the truth came crashing down in front of him like the lava of Krakatoa: Sherlock Holmes kidnapped this poor child, and he needed to pay.
He gestured to two of his officers who came and grabbed Sherlock, and held him still despite his fighting for freedom. The man was worried for his family, and this worrying made him weak. Lestrade came up behind him and forced his wrists into handcuffs, and turned to look at him sadly.
"Sherlock Holmes, I am arresting you under suspicion of kidnapping a minor"
