"Yes, Sherlock? What do you -"
Molly frowned into her phone as Sherlock's excited babbling interrupted her question. "Wait, slow down, what's this about a hound?" she finally managed to break in. "Where are you?" Her frown deepened, lines creased between her brows and head tilted to the side as she attempted to hold the mobile between shoulder and cheek. Whatever Sherlock had called her about - what kind of hound, she wondered briefly - bassett, blood, or beagle? - she still only had about a half-hour to finish eating before she had to get started on her next autopsy.
"A hound, Molly! An enormous hound! I saw it, but I couldn't have seen it - it's not possible! I lied and said I didn't see it, but I did and John thinks I'm crazy, I know he does!"
Sherlock was as close to panicky babbling as she'd ever heard him. "Sherlock, whatever you are, it's not crazy," she said as firmly as she could as Sherlock took what almost sounded like a sobbing breath. She took a calming breath of her own. "Do you have a list?"
Silence greeted her question, a silence that was broken finally by the sound of a ragged breath being drawn - immediately followed by a sardonic bark of laughter. "It's not drugs, Molly, at least nothing that I intended…"
He fell silent again, but Molly waited patiently, grabbing a quick forkful of her lasagna as she did so. If Sherlock said it wasn't drugs, then it wasn't drugs, but clearly her question had set off a train of thought he was currently following. If he'd been standing in front of her, she fancied he'd be staring off into the distance the way he did when his mind was racing to a conclusion, possibly with his fingers waving a bit in front of his face.
That little quirk was one she'd always found endearing, made him seem that much more human than the cold-blooded deducing machine he seemed to want everyone to believe him to be.
She knew better, or thought she did. Hoped she did, anyway, even though he'd pretty thoroughly shot her down the one time she'd worked up the nerve to ask him for coffee. Had he really misunderstood her, or-
"That's it! Of course!" Molly nearly dropped the phone, and did drop her fork onto the floor. Luckily she always kept a spare one on hand, never knew when it might come in useful!. So she fished it out of her handbag and started to ask Sherlock what this call was about when he abruptly ended the call.
She glared down at her mobile in annoyance. It was a good thing she lo-liked him a great deal! she thought in total exasperation. Sherlock and his games. Well, probably it was something to do with a case but honestly, one of these days she was going to get fed up enough to demand that he answer a question for her before she answered one of his!
Back in Dartmoor, Sherlock grinned as he flipped his mobile in the air and caught it one-handed. As he typed in a quick message to John, he found his thoughts wandering back to his brief conversation with Molly. She'd been wide of the mark, thinking he was back on the sweeties, but he had to acknowledge her right to question him about it. And, he further acknowledged, as he waited for John's response, it was that question that had brought things back into focus for him.
John might be the person who most frequently managed to nudge Sherlock's intellect in the right direction by means of his own ignorance, but he was hardly the only person.
He frowned at the thought; it was dangerously close to sentiment, and hadn't he just told John that he didn't have friends? He wasn't sure why it was a bad idea to think of Molly that way, but told himself that he didn't have time for such nonsense at the moment. He was on a case, and his feelings about Molly Hooper - not that he had any - could be safely ignored.
Or deleted. After all, what danger could there possibly be in removing anything he didn't need from the well-oiled machine that was his mind?
