Mycroft is in his home office when the sound of the doorbell interferes with his work. His man, Jenner, brings in a guest.
Detective Inspector Gregory Lestrade huffs out a breath, tired and worn from the day's busy schedule, and says, "Here's the document on the Williams case. You mentioned you wanted it quick, and this is the best I could do. I thought–,"
Removing it from the silver-haired criminal investigator's hand, Mycroft tosses it on the desk, "That is fine, indeed. Come have a drink," stepping towards the decanters on the side table and tipping out enough bourbon to top the two glasses.
Ridding himself of his jacket, Greg throws it on the rear of a chair and takes the glass.
Mycroft, mindful of the strain in the room, pushes a high back chair nearer the fireplace and sits.
Assumptions understood – expectations assumed.
Greg throws back the luxurious fluid and licks his lips.
With a wink, Greg strolls the–one, two, three steps until he is contacting Mycrofts knees with his.
"Drink up," he whispers, with a dash of playfulness and a tinge of smugness about his lips.
Mycroft is reluctant and dodges Greg's eyes.
However, Mycroft drinks it all, mindful of the criminal investigator's closeness.
Kneeling, Greg brushes one palm in a sensual move down Mycrofts chest and halts before moving to the belt of his dark blue trousers.
The button opened, and the zipper zipped down in a slow erotic motion.
The folds of the custom fitted article of clothing fall open. Each hears an admission of breath from the other.
One feels cooler air on his uncovered skin.
The other notices the impact of cool air on his partner's skin.
Mycroft's usually logical mind flies through the window, and turmoil ensues in his brain.
Greg's one finger connects to the base of the engorged member and trails up over the pinkish-brown puckered skin. Over the edge of the tip to encircle the whitish pink head and down to the bald pubic region.
Mycroft's heavy breathing occupies the room, diminishing the air around them.
He looks at Greg, his eyes wide as a magnifying glass, with a tinge of pink on his cheeks.
He tosses his head back.
The world stops spinning for Mycroft as Greg's fingers trail over his two round orbs, and he subsequently rests them in the center of his palm.
The variety of rumblings that echos from Mycrofts throat is sensuous and rises and falls with every breath.
Greg's fingers roll over the sticky substance spilling out from Mycroft, and he coats the long and bountiful shaft that is currently wholly in Greg's control.
Closing one hand around the length, Greg robustly pulls up, eliciting a sucked-in breath from Mycroft.
Proceeding to pump Mycroft vigorously, Greg hears, to his joy, the many notes of rapture emanating from the older man.
Greg furthers his energetic movements, and unexpectedly, Mycroft bolts up, his fingers contort on the edges of his seat, yells, cries, and bounces precariously off the seat's cushion but falls back.
An emission of life fluid spouts forward – once – twice – then multiple times.
Mycroft slumps in a heap. His body conquered, his breath exiting gently from his lips, entirely enveloped in the moment's ecstasy.
Greg tiptoes out.
