A/N: This story is set in a world in which everyone has a Match, with whom they are expected to fall in love with. It's my first try at second person—yes it's not allowed on this site so what—so it'll definitely be terrible. Feel free to shout at me in the reviews.
Her name is Mary Morstan.
For your entire life, she has been on your mind. She flits in and out of your dreams. She is blond. She is red-haired. She is blue-eyed. She is green-eyed. She is cold-blooded. She is kind. You do not know. But whatever she is, she is your Match, and that is enough.
You have looked for her. You went out of your way to ask the name of every single girl you met, in case it is Mary Morstan. You convinced yourself that she is doing the same, and that some day, you will meet.
But it's been three decades now, and you have given up.
Until now.
You lied to Mike Stamford. You didn't need a flatmate, but you needed someone to take your mind away from this terrible loneliness.
Even if that someone isn't your Match.
His name is Sherlock Holmes.
He is nothing like Mary Morstan—at least, not the one in your imagination. He is tall and curly-haired, with austere grey eyes. He is sarcastic. He is mean. He is antisocial. He behaves like a spoiled child. He is annoying, so annoying you wanted to punch him within five seconds of meeting him.
But you stayed nonetheless.
Days turned to weeks. Weeks turned to months. 221B Baker Street became your home, and Sherlock Holmes became a permanent part of your life.
And even though you still haven't found your Match, you are no longer alone.
Mary Morstan had been dead for years.
In fact, she had never lived—she was a stillborn baby, dead before she even saw the world. Sherlock had found her grave first, and he had called you.
You can still remember his words: "If convenient, come at once. If inconvenient, come anyway."
The tremor of emotion in his voice had surprised you.
His embrace had surprised you even more.
"I thought you weren't the hugging type," you mutter, your voice muffled by Sherlock's coat.
"It was the most logical course of action. You clearly needed one," he replies, back to his normal, logical self.
And annoying as he is, he is right.
You do not have a Match anymore, but at least you have Sherlock Holmes.
Two streets have never seemed so far away.
"Sherlock!" you shout, even though he is too far to hear you. You fling open the door of the cab and you run as if your life depends on it.
And it does. But not in the way you expected.
"This is my note, John. Goodbye."
A flurry of motion, a blur of color, and the world disintegrated beneath you.
You have lost your Match; now, you have lost Sherlock Holmes too.
And as you stand in front of the grave of the greatest man you have ever known, you realize that although Sherlock Holmes was not your Match, you still love him anyway.
