"
coffin, Sherlock? Please, start your deductions. I will apply some context in a moment," Eurus finishes.
Sherlock, who has been pacing around, turns towards the head of the coffin. "Well, allowing for the entirely pointless courtesy of headroom, I'd say this coffin is intended for someone about five foot three. Makes it more likely to be a woman."
John's brows furrow. "Not a child?"
Sherlock shakes his head. "A child's coffin can be more expensive, yes, since this is in the higher price range. But the design and the shape of the coffin suggests that the person within it is particular about appearances. One of the best available in that bracket."
John sighs under his breath. "A lonely night on Google."
Sherlock continues. "This is a lavish and informed choice. Balance of probability suggests that this is for a married woman but distant from her close relatives. That much is suggested by the economy of choice. Acquainted with lots of admirers, and obviously well-liked by those around her. Also the lining of the coffin—"
"Yes, very good, Sherlock," Mycroft interrupts, "or we could just look at the name in the epitaph."
Sherlock spins to look at the lid Mycroft is holding, a black headstone with golden letterings, much like his own. He sighs and closes his eyes.
"Only it isn't a name," Mycroft adds.
The golden epitaph reads Sherlock's dreaded words.
"So, it's for somebody who loves somebody," John concludes.
Mycroft counters, "It's for somebody who loves Sherlock." He turns to his brother. "This is all about you. Everything here… So, who loves you? I'm assuming it's not a long list."
"Molly?" John suggests.
"Don't be ridiculous," Sherlock dismisses. "Look at the coffin. Lavish, particular about appearances, well-liked by all."
John's eyes widen. "It can't be—"
Sherlock sighs. "Woman."
"But you said she was marr—"
On the screen, Eurus leans forward, interrupting. "She's perfectly safe, for the moment."
The screen switches to four images from a camera of the interior of a beautiful home. A countdown clock is on the top right of the screen showing three minutes, fixed.
"Her flat is rigged to explode in approximately three minutes," Eurus continues. Sherlock moves forward to look closer at the screen. "Unless I hear the release code from her lips. I'm calling her on your phone, Sherlock. Make her say it."
John's brows furrow. "Say what?"
Sherlock purses his lips in reply.
"Obvious, surely?" Eurus says.
John shakes his head. "No."
Sherlock nods. "Yes." He turns to look at the epitaph. John looks at it in horror and pity.
"Oh, one important restriction: you're not allowed to mention in any way at all that her life is in danger. You may not—at any point—suggest that there is any form of crisis. If you do, I will end this session and her life. Are we clear?"
Sherlock nods, and they hear the phone dialing. The clock starts counting down.
In Irene's flat, she is sitting on the armchair beside the window on her phone. Sherlock's phone connects and they see and hear Irene's phone ring. Eurus plays Moriarty's ticking.
They watch as Irene tilts her head to the side as she looks at her phone. She puts her phone down before looking out the window.
"What's she doing?" Sherlock asks.
"She's smiling," Mycroft observes.
Sherlock looks at the clock. It's at 02:39.
"Yes, but why isn't she answering her phone?" Sherlock asks.
John sighs. "You never answer 
phone."
Sherlock grumbles. "Yes, but it's 
calling."
They watch as Irene keeps staring at her phone. The countdown clock reaches 02:27 as her phone goes to voicemail.
"Gertrude Norton. Leave a message."
Mycroft and John share a look at the name.
Eurus speaks over the speakers. "Okay, okay. Just one more time."
They hear the phone dial once more. Sherlock draws a long breath as Irene's phone start to ring again. The countdown is at 02:12. John shuffles on the spot, tense.
John quietly whispers, "Come on, pick up. Just bloody pick up."
They watch as Irene look at her phone in surprise, tilting her head, she finally answers.
Irene's voice is carried out through the room by the speakers. "Mister Holmes, is it truly you calling me or is your pocket dialing my number on its own again?"
Sherlock doesn't hesitate. "Woman, I just want you to do something very questionable for me, and not ask why."
Irene hums. "Not ask why? Are you planning a surprise for me, Mister Holmes? Is it my birthday? Do you have a game for me?"
"No, it's not a game. I… need you to help me."
They watch as Irene stands in alarm. "My help? Do you need to know more things about the network? I told you I don't have any more—"
Sherlock shakes his head as if Irene can see him. "It's not about that."
Irene sighs in relief before leaning back on her armchair. "Well? Go on," she replies, smirking but her tense shoulders speak differently. Sherlock looks away momentarily at the hidden intensity of her eyes. "Mister Holmes? What is it? What do you want? Am I compromised?"
Eurus chooses that moment to put Moriarty's ticking back to their screen.
"No," Sherlock starts. "Woman, please, without asking why, just say these words."
"What words?" Irene asks in a sultry voice.
Sherlock replies clearly, "I love you."
Irene moves her phone away from her ear as if it just burnt her. She looks at it in surprise, before smiling to herself and putting the phone back in her ear. "Is John or Lestrade with you right now?" she laughs. "Because you can tell them I'm hanging up and they could—"
"No! 
, no, don't hang up! Do 
hang up!"
"Calmly, Sherlock, or I 
finish her right now," Eurus warns him. Sherlock looks at the countdown which is at 01:08.
Sherlock continues quieter. "Please, I swear, you just have to listen to me."
"Softer, Sherlock!" Eurus warns.
"
, listen to me. Just say it," Sherlock says.
John and Mycroft share another knowing look, both seeing all of the tensity, curiosity, and flirting from Irene Adler's face, quickly vanishing. They see her smile, but it is of a crueler kind but something no one else would find easy to spot unless they are well acquainted with one Irene Adler.
"What do I have to say?" she asks.
Sherlock looks at her image on the screen. "It's… I love you…" Before Irene opens her mouth, Sherlock repeats, "I love you…"
John and Mycroft share another look.
They see Irene look around her room, as if wondering if someone is listening in. John doesn't miss the wedding band on her left ring finger.
"I love you," Sherlock says determinedly. "Woman?"
Irene sighs and closes her eyes. With a soft smile, she whispers, "I love you."
Sherlock steps back as the countdown clock beeps several times to signify that it has stopped at 00:44. Irene smiles and hangs up the phone. She settles it on her lap and looks out the window.
Mycroft starts. "Sherlock, however hard that was—"
Sherlock rubs his face with his hand and straightens up.
"Eurus, I won. I won." She just stares at him. "Come on, play fair. The girl on the plane: I need to talk to her. I won. I saved Irene Adler."
Eurus looks away and closes the screen.
"What is the matter with her? I won, didn't I?" Sherlock asks angrily, gesturing at the now empty screen.
"You said she was married?" Mycroft asks slowly, as if trying to console a child.
Sherlock's mouth snaps shut. It takes a few moments before he replies. "Yes, but that doesn't matter now. We need to talk to the little girl."
"How long have you known?" John asks, turning to Mycroft.
"Known what?" Mycroft asks, not looking at John in the eyes.
"You knew she wasn't dead!" John exclaims with a humorless laugh. "So basically, everyone knows except me? Not the first time."
Mycroft sighs. "It became obvious that she survived after my little brother's quick recovery from the news of her… departure."
Sherlock grumbles, "You said she was in a protection scheme from America."
Mycroft gives him a look. "You give John's lying skills way too much credit."
"And she's married?" John asks.
No one speaks for a while.
"No…." Mycroft starts.
"It… It's not…" Sherlock stammers.
"You 
," Mycroft replies.
"What? What? Didn't what?" John asks, moving his head side to side from either brother as if it's a tennis match.
"It seems my brother is off the market," Mycroft concludes.
John turns to give Sherlock the most flabbergasted look the man has ever given him. "What?! You? And her?"
Sherlock looks at the screen again. "Eurus probably is not too happy that this round was finished way too quickly for her liking."
"
 are you two 
?" John asks.
Sherlock sighs. "Sherlock Holmes and Irene Adler are not married," he starts.
John grunts, "Sure, and John Watson says Sherlock Holmes is a sick lying bastard. How about that?"
Sherlock lets out an impatient breath. "I mean, our aliases are married. Not us directly."
Mycroft intervenes. "So, the source you have regarding the network, if what she says is true—"
Sherlock looks at the empty screen again. Whether it is Eurus or Irene Adler he wants to see, no one knows. "It is," he replies softly before looking at the coffin. "Eurus!" he starts again. "Do not harm Irene Adler! Harming her isn't part of our deal! She said the code word. She should not be harmed!"
With that, Eurus comes back on the screen with an unamused look on her face. "Very well. Now pull yourself together. I need you at peak efficiency. The next one isn't going to be so easy. In your own time."
The door opens to the next room.
