She should not have come.
She had not wished to come, and nor had Miss Adler wished to invite her. It had only been societal dictates and Miss Adler's excellent upbringing which had prevented her from directly slighting her, by not issuing an invitation.
Molly herself had only agreed to come on the insistence of her cousin Mary, who had sincerely wished to dance with her betrothed, Dr John Watson, but would have refused to leave Molly at home alone.
"I'm sure you shall enjoy it when we are there," Mary had said, and how wrong she was. Molly had never felt more out of place than in this extravagant setting.
Seeing him with her only proved to highlight their unsuitability. It was foolish of her to ever have held any hope, of course. They moved in such different circles.
And now, seeing Miss Adler acting as hostess, seeing her with Mr Holmes, seeing the two dance together, and talk together…
She should not have come.
Molly hastily pulled on her coat turning away to hide the tears threatening to form.
"You are not leaving?" She did not look back, but simply shrugged slightly.
"I believe it is time to return home," she replied, quietly.
"But you have not brought your carriage," came the almost pleading reply. "At least take mine."
"Your parents require it far more than I do."
"The footman shall take you home and be back before it is time for us to leave."
"Nevertheless, it is not two miles. I shall walk."
"It is late. You cannot go unaccompanied, and the Morstans are occupied. Would you allow me to walk with you?"
She finally turned around and looked up to meet the eyes of Sherlock Holmes.
"You do not have to, Mr Holmes," she told him, softly. She understood why he was offering. His mother had probably insisted, or Dr Watson - the two people he could not deny anything.
"I… do not mind," he said, looking away, and she sighed slightly.
"I mean it. You do not have to," she replied, and started walking away from him.
He, however, had other ideas, and he almost ran and came to a stop before her. "I do not mean that I don't mind. I mean that I wish to." When she gave him a questioning look, he cleared his throat. "There is nothing further to hold my interest here. I should like to accompany you very much, Miss Hooper."
Had Molly not been so preoccupied in hiding her own blush, she would have noticed the redness that had unwittingly crept up onto his cheeks. She could not acquiesce to his request just yet, however.
"Mr Holmes, I shall put it bluntly. You need not follow me out of a misplaced sense of duty, and especially not from pity at my circumstance. You may return to dancing with your Miss Adler," she told him, her voice breaking as she finished.
Sherlock was silent as Molly composed herself. Just as she managed to rein in the tears, she mustered the strength to meet his eyes, only to find him staring at her, looking confused.
"She is not my Miss Adler, however much she might wish to be," he told her, grasping one of her hands in both of his. She could feel the warmth seeping through her glove, and she resisted the urge to return the hold. "Nor was I dancing with her. That honour has fallen to my brother. He and I may not always see eye to eye, but he has always been the self-sacrificing sort. And he is aware, as should you be, that there is only one woman in this room I would like to dance with, Molly."
Her brows furrowed slightly and she gasped at the admission. He, in turn, momentarily clasped her hand more tightly, before noticing her shocked expression, and stepping back warily, relinquishing his hold.
"Miss Hooper. I meant Miss Hooper. Forgive me, I did not mean to take such liberties. I simply misspoke. John - Dr Watson, that is - often calls me out for my behaviour, but I would never knowingly…"
He trailed off as she stepped forward, and gently placed a hand on his arm. She watched his gaze follow her arm from her hand up to her face, and although she was blushing, her lips curved upwards.
"Perhaps we might dance together another time," she told him, using every ounce of strength she had to stop herself from swooning at the intensity of his gaze.
"Perhaps at John's wedding?" he asked quickly, and her blush deepened at his eagerness. She nodded slightly, in spite of herself, he let out a relieved laugh.
"So you will let me accompany you home?"
"Mr Holmes…" She was about to refuse on the grounds of propriety, but his expression made her falter. "Per… Perhaps I might request the use of your carriage?"
His delight was immediate, though perhaps not apparent to all - indeed, had she not been standing so close to him, she might never have seen the slight quirking up of his lips or the twitch in his brow. But she was standing very close to him. Very close indeed. In fact, she could almost hear the sound of his heart…
She was startled out of her reverie as he placed a gentle kiss on her hands, before taking his leave of her to inform the footman of the travel arrangements.
He was there again not five minutes later, to hand her into the carriage, and as she fumbled out a thank you, he merely bowed in response.
"My next dance shall be yours," were his parting words, "and all others, should you wish it."
