"You are glaring at her again, dear brother."
"What? I am not glaring. I do not 
"
"Hmm," Mycroft said, the smirk on his face suggesting just how much he believed this. Sherlock frowned at him. He was not glaring. He was merely… looking in her direction, in a generally displeased manner- ah. Perhaps he 
 glaring.
But who wouldn't be glaring?
From the moment she had entered the ball room, she had been surrounded by a gaggle of gentlemen, crowding around her in order to ask her to dance or simply to be close to her. Even Watson and Lestrade had fallen victim to her charms.
He watched now as the farmer's son, Tommy Mason led her to engage in the dance. His brow wrinkled in disapproval when she laughed at some insipid comment he had made, or when she failed to reprimand the man for holding onto her (albeit gloved) hand for a moment too long. Was she really so naive? Could she not see that the man was besotted by her?
, a niggling voice in the back of his head told him. 
"She does look wonderful. Perhaps you should request her hand for the next two sets?"
Sherlock whirled around to face his brother, and frowned menacingly. "She is nothing remarkable."
"Sherlock-" Mycroft started, but Sherlock interrupted him.
"It would take a rather more exceptional lady for me to engage in the activity."
"
"And besides, 
," he interrupted again, angrily, "I have no intention of dancing with a woman who has done nothing today other than encouraging the affections of multiple men with the use of her 
 for I see none of it, beauty…"
He trailed off as his brother closed his eyes, and slowly turned around, and his anger immediately deflated.
There she stood, behind him, staring intently at a spot on the floor and of course, Watson and Lestrade stood behind her, as though they were her protectors, looking as though they sincerely wished to call him out. Sherlock wished they would. Getting shot would be far less painful than the pain which coursed through him when he saw how watery her eyes had become.
She finally looked up, and when she spoke, he was surprised to find her voice steady, not reflecting the pain which was so evident in the rest of her features. She held a small package out towards him
"For you. I thought you might like it. Merry Christmas, Mr Holmes," she said to him, meeting his eyes, determinedly. Sherlock wordlessly took the package she handed him. It was a watch, of course. He knew that. But it was more the fact that, despite all his harsh words, she had thought to give him a gift.
"Miss Hooper, I did -" he began but he was interrupted.
"You always say the most horrible things," said she, with a small, humourless laugh. "Every time. Always. Always…"
Sherlock opened his mouth to speak, but no words came out. He simply swallowed, and there was silence for what seemed like an eternity, before Mycroft finally spoke.
"Miss Hooper, perhaps you might allow me the next dance?"
"It would be my pleasure," replied she, smiling slightly at Mycroft, who stepped forward and gently took her hand. Sherlock watched as the two danced, each as elegant as the other. Watson and Lestrade were both using the opportunity to berate him, and every so often he caught parts of their speech.
"-is ridiculous, Holmes-"
"-how tactless-"
"-even for 
that was-"
"-nothing but kind to you, but you-"
"Yes, fine!" Sherlock finally snapped, yet he seemed more to be annoyed with himself than his friends. "I should not have spoken thus. I was… wrong. And now she will not wish to associate with me."
He looked down at the package in his hands, and his fingers clasped it tightly. Watson and Lestrade had gone silent now, and he looked towards them.
They both looked shocked, and rightly so. He was not, after all, in the habit of admitting his mistakes. He would reluctantly admit it was one of his worse qualities.
"Holmes, you 
 apologise," Watson told him, a little more gently, as he saw the lost expression on Sherlock's face.
"I will. Later," Sherlock said, simply. "Excuse me."
His friends did not stop him as he walked out onto the balcony, his fingers tightening over the package.
He had been so affected by her today. But then, she had been so different.
She had smiled, shyly deflected compliments to her person, danced and talked and listened.
But she 
 did that. Why should today have been any different?
you
 came the niggling voice again. 
you
you
you
He shook his head at that. That could not be it. Why should it matter to him what she did? After all, he did not own her.
(And if his heart sped up as this thought passed through his head, he would be the last to admit it.)
No, the only logical explanation was that she had been acting unlike herself, and he, William Sherlock Scott Holmes, despised change.
, came the ludicrous voice again. 
logical
Love? He did not 
 her. Even the idea was preposterous.
Of course, he admired her intelligence. She was unlike the insipid women of the ton, choosing to read about science and philosophy, rather than those pathetic novels which were considered 'acceptable reading'.
Her selflessness amazed him. How many times had he seen her willingly make visits to tenants, giving up her own food in order to ensure that none in her tenure went hungry? How many times had he heard children and the elderly alike singing her praises? How many times had she put up with 
 when he had been in one of those moods?
And then there was her beauty. He could admit, now, at least to himself, that his criticisms of her beauty were 
 unfounded. Yes, he had found her plain, at one point, when they had first met. But that had only been at the very beginning, and it had been a while now since he had grown to consider her one of the handsomest woman of his acquaintance… dear lord.
He 
love her. The joy he felt at this realisation was short lived, when he came to the realisation that he had perhaps lost her. He loved her, and he had given her up.
He shut his eyes. "I love her," he breathed, as if it was a secret message to be carried away by the wind, never to be shared with anyone.
"Who?" Ah. The wind was rather less reliable than he had predicted. He turned slowly around to face the object of his affections, who was standing behind him again. Was he doomed to have every comment he made about her overhead by the woman herself?
"I beg your pardon?" he asked, claiming ignorance.
"You muttered 'I love her'. To whom were you referring?" Her eyes were wide as she looked upon him.
"I… I was referring to… my mother. She is a dear lady," he stuttered, turning his head to the side and internally cursing himself for sounding so foolish.
"And what made you think of her just now?" she asked, softly.
"The… the birds. They were singing… whistling a tune… it reminded me of her…" He almost brought up a palm to his forehead. What must she think of him. He found out exactly that when a giggle escaped her, and he turned his head towards her to see her attempting to conceal her laughter.
Of course he did not need to tell her whom he was referring to. Of course she would know.
He gave her a sheepish look, before steeling himself, as he met her eyes. "Miss Hooper, I am truly sorry. I am well aware I do not deserve your forgiveness, though it makes me no less desirous of it."
She smiled, a little sadly, her hands clasped infront of her. "There is nothing to forgive, Mr Holmes. You merely professed your opinion. That is not an offence."
"Is that what you believe?" He grabbed her hands with his free one (the other still holding tightly onto her gift) and looked at her intensely. "Miss Hooper, I assure you, that was most certainly not my opinion. My opinion is quite the opposite! And as to your beauty, well, your beauty is 
, Miss Hooper."
He spoke as if there was never any question about that, and her resulting blush was the combined effect of his words, his looks and the feel of his hands on hers.
She smiled again, a brilliant, elated smile this time. "In that case, I accept your apology."
He barked out a laugh at this remarkable woman, and slowly removed his hands from hers, immediately missing the warmth they provided. They both turned to look onto the gardens, each content to simply be in the other's presence.
"Did you enjoy your dance with my brother?" he asked her.
"He did manage to… bring clarity to certain matters," replied she. "Although he left before the song was over. I believe he had pressing business to attend to."
"In the middle of a dance? How very impolite of him." His words were spoken in an extremely self deprecating manner, and he could not help but smile as it elicited another giggle from her.
"Have you opened the present yet?" Miss Hooper asked him, then. He shook his head.
"Though I know it is a watch," Sherlock told her, smugly. She smiled at him, fondly.
"Open it," she told him. As he opened the brown box, he saw something that was very much not a watch.
"It is a lens!" he exclaimed, unable to contain his boyish glee, and she laughed.
"Should you wish to observe the finer details of your experiments. It belonged to my grandfather," she informed him. After he had told her just how useful it was, and had examined it to his heart's content, his eyes came to rest on hers again.
Placing the lens, along with its box, in the pocket of his coat, he took both of her hands in his.
"Thank you," he said, and she was taken aback by the genuine warmth with which he spoke.
"Nothing could have given me greater pleasure," replied she, and it was true.
He slowly brought her hands closer to his lips, his eyes never leaving hers. "Merry Christmas, Miss Hooper," he whispered, before laying gentle kisses on the backs of each of her hands.
"Merry Christmas, Mr Holmes."
