It has been a long day after chasing the one person who who was only way to how they can reach who penetrated 
 museum where they kept the Crown , the jewel an all other valuables.
John : you know i sometime wonder how did 
 got in the you know what!
Sherlock : ah ! Mycroft is the most 
 specie . we only wonder about him.
John : well..That's what a Sibling says ..
Sherlock : Oh, he managed to gain what 
 needed in times and he works for certian level where one only gets after a cutthroat and yet enthusiastic competition of trust and valour.
John : Now you answered my query.
Sherlock Threw his coat Away across the Sofa. He walked towards the Shelf to get Letters Which are in dozens . He is Mentally Walking through letters over the envelope only .
John is settled with his Laptop Only. He enjoys his Blog and Comments he gets.
Its Summer in London But Clouds never go away .
And the darkness they bring is scary to a child who is alone , maybe a Adult would also feel the same when they are helpless or tired or 
 in their Chore.
Sherlock(
) : Ah these letters never bring any Joy!?
John(nodding his head in 
 way) : Well You do know they are your fan mails or thanking letters.
Sherlock(somewhat , 
 tone) : Fans , That's what they do. ? Besides I am no Hero.
John(explaining) : Yes , You are their Saviour Or maybe Ideal.
Sherlock(zoning out) : Yep.
John (slight joking tone) : Besides , Your Joy reside more in slitting of a innocents throat.
Sherlock (acceptingly) : yes , because i am a very high functioning detective.
John : Most 
 you are.
Sherlock Is not So good in Mood when he falls Short on catching something .
The visual of the Guy who ran away and shot himself on neck is still fresh.
Sherlock is staring out the window is feeling sunken in the dark clouds . He only remembers what the young man did to himself.
Sherlock (thinking ) : Why to end life on a very abrupt note . He could have spent his rest time in jail . But who knows he might have sworn for life to hide the identity. or maybe his knowns would have to face consequence which he saved them from.
Sherlock has a Language which his Eyes and Body convey .
And John Knows What is conveyed when .
Imagine A Person Sherlock Obviously. Who is always misunderstood by the People who are around him. Always has been told he is a FREAK.
This person is Considered a Human In Whole his Circle By A Single person Who is John.
Sherlock Might not Express but His thoughts are heard and understood By Someone who is dear to him More than he himself. The Time of Entering Of John in Sherlock's Life Or Sherlock in John's was Pre Decided As to Always Maintain a Balance in Those too Mind And Soul.
Sherlock never 
 In saying How he might not feel or Can't As Other Humans do . But John Also Never backs off in proofing How Sherlock hides is all of the Loaded Human stuff i his heart Behind thousand closed Doors.
John Thinks or is very Certain that Sherlock has lost all his Loved ones in Life . Rather Very Early So As to Not Bother himself Furthermore He Has Kept a Wall Between him and his heart and his Words.
And Sherlock Is very Certain that John has seen Worse or rather More than enough Deaths that Makes him Automatically Take Sherlock To realise that He is Breathing and is alive and is Human and Feels.
How come these too Only strongly and Supposedly Oppose Proving each other.
Or Rather Proving Themselves Only by Contradicting their 
.
John Sensed the tensed situation that sherlock might be going through.
John : "what you thinking about?"
Sherlock : "Should not Have taken up the case , The Yard should have accomplished. "
John : "How does it matter ? I am pretty sure you must have observed whatever was there "
Sherlock : " Sometimes i fail as well "
John(concerned) : "Sherlock , Are you Alright? You can tell me . Something Bothering you."
Sherlock (faded) : " umm , I mm uh feel that "
John (curiously) : "What ? What do you feel about what?"
Sherlock (changing the coarse , murmuring ) : "Nothing ."
John 100th Attempt and Yet He fails.
John Always tries that whenever Sherlock feels something He should crystally express it without a Doubt. John 
 tries to improve the State of Sherlock whenever he feels a Weight .
Yes. Sherlock is 
 going through something.
Weight On Heart.
Weight On His Heart.
Sherlock again walking towards the window . He places his Hands in his pockets of Pant.
Sherlock (minding his own thoughts ) : what i think i was doing!? maybe i should have only shut my mouth or only speak when i get rid of this . This what? A unknown man shot himself. So what? Thousands of men Die. Yeah How does it matter to me !? But he SHOT himself. He died. A young Ambitious man. May be his Ambition 
 so good. Died of saying a Name . Well He was connected with not so good people.
John is noticing that Sherlock is very seriously affected after the Incident.
John stands up and walked towards Him.
John patted Sherlock's Left Shoulder.
John : "Hey , Take a breath."
Sherlock(startled) : " yeah! "
John : " You know I am your friend , when something is bothering you. I simply Know . Also I get to learn to Observe from a very intelligent guy I happen to know "
Sherlock (smiling) : "Should I consider It as a Healthy joke ?
John(chuckled) : " The guys hardly Laughs so it will do. "
Sherlock (slight laughing ) : " Yeah He does. "
Sherlock (monotonous) : "Nothing is bothering me John. All's well."
John (realised) : "Oh Sure. "
Sherlock (grateful) : "Well i should then ,Thank you . "
John (questioningly) : "Why !?"
Sherlock (grateful) : " For simply Being By my side , and Accompanying me "
John (small gaze and patted) : " That's What a Friend Does. I am your friend and will Always be . I am here for you. "
Yes , That's what John Has always been Doing. He is there. When it Matters For Sherlock. And John is There.
That is in itself a Satisfactory Feeling in the whole world.
John might Know Sherlock is Not so Tough . And Sherlock knows that John won't ever Be so cruel that He will Make it a Thing.
This makes their Friendship Somewhat Special and Very Different than others.
They both understand each other and Do not need Specific Conversation that Will make their friendship Stronger. This is not Just About showcase . They are on a Different Spectrum of Friendship. They both define Essential base of Friendship. What normally people see as Friendship or whatever its To do list.
Without saying what is going on or what is Happening in each other life . They have both known each other in such a way . That they don't need to express it in words.
They know each others thoughts. And They are Correct every time.
Sherlock does not need to Use his deduction skills this time when he asks or tells john.
He somehow Happens to Know .
Similarly John Somehow Happens to know.
Signing off.
 : Thanks for checking in the one shot. Take Good Care.
: Hah! Loved Writing After a very Long time Was missing my Fanfiction days so I got hands free an Hour. Writing has always calmed me down whenever i felt sunken or lacked behind in life. A writing day will give calmness to my restless mind and soul. As much i love writing , I always get far more away than it. But it is now my turn to hold onto it. And also Hold onto so many other stuff in my life. And as soon as i find the strength and feel worthy i feel. But i am always grateful for their interference in my life. Just know that , I so miss you and have strong urge to back to how it was. And keep my Promise of forever. I deliver it.
