"Alright, mate. Here ya go." The cab driver had to repeat himself before John heard him. "Sir? We've arrived."
John lifted his head from the window he was resting his forehead against, a movement that was much more difficult than usual. The interior of the cab swayed before his eyes.
"Hm? Oh, yes. Thank you." John pulled a banknote from his pocket and handed it to the driver, not bothering to check its value. He opened the cab door. "Keep the change."
The driver sounded a little too enthusiastic in his thanks, meaning John gave him way more than was expected, but in his disorientation he couldn't bring himself to care. He stepped out onto the pavement and shut the door behind him. The cab sped off. Being suddenly upright brought a sudden surge of nausea coursing through his stomach. John stumbled slightly to the nearest wall to steady himself, breathing deeply.
he thought. He had just left a first date with one of the nurses he met at work, if you could even call it a date. Ella had invited him to her place for tea; He assumed it was her attempt to create a more intimate setting. What John was not expecting was to arrive to discover her entire family of nine waiting to include him in their "family game night". It was clear their daughter didn't go on many dates.
Not wanting to be rude, John stayed the whole five hours he was welcome; He purchased land in Monopoly, pieced together words in Scrabble, and, much to everyone's delight, attempted to scope out the murderous culprit in several games of Cluedo. Seriously; Several games. Ella's mother was "quite a big fan of the blog", so she apparently decided John must be some kind of crime solving genius. He did not win a single game, or have the heart to remind her that Sherlock was usually the one figuring out all the clues.
After many cups of tea and 
 of "Granny's famous sausage rolls", John was at last released. He was relieved to get away, and resolved to not go out with Ella again.
The relief did not last long, however. John began to feel dizzy in the cab on the way back to 221B Baker Street. Assuming it was due to his fatigue at the late hour, he attempted to nap, using the coolness of the window to try and ease the fuzziness in his head. Unfortunately, his discomfort kept him from sleep the whole ride.
It didn't matter. He was home now. He could at last have a lie down in his own bed.
Or not.
John looked up at the sign hanging from the flat in front of him, dazed, hoping he wasn't reading the words he thought he was. After several seconds of staring at it, he was forced to accept it: The cab driver had misunderstood him. He was standing in front of 221B Beggar Street.
John turned around, already knowing the cab was long gone but hoping against hope that it still sat lingering on the curb, waiting for him to come back. It wasn't.
The nausea intensified. Lightheaded, John leaned back against the rough wall of the wrong flat, closing his eyes tightly and taking deep breaths in hopes of easing the sour feeling in his stomach. He knew what was wrong, he had seen it a thousand times in his own patients. He had food poisoning. He thought again of those sausage rolls. They did seem undercooked.
Lovely.
After a few minutes passed, John decided he was fine. He just needed to find another cab so he could get home and rest. Pushing off the wall caused yet another wave of nausea, but he ignored it.
 John thought. He walked the streets, looking back and forth for one. The buildings swam, blending together into blurry smudges. He thought he had found his way into a neighborhood, but couldn't be sure because it was getting increasingly difficult to see clearly.
The lampposts were bright. So bright. He saw spots. So many spots. 
 he thought over and over.
John struggled to focus. He slowed down his steps to try and get his bearings, but his foot caught on a curb before he could fully halt, sending him cascading to the pavement. Rough concrete met his hands as he caught himself. The jolting movement brought on a sudden urge to vomit, and this time John couldn't hold back. He retched, emptying the contents of his stomach onto the ground, wherever he was.
Once there was nothing left to expel, John took a deep, shuddering breath and shakily wiped his sleeved over his mouth in a feeble attempt to clean himself up. He weakly turned and lay back against the pavement, sick splattered right by his head. He didn't care. In fact, laying here on the pavement felt a lot better than his previous employment of wandering the streets. John gazed up at the starless black sky. He decided to rest his eyes for a just moment before he got up. Just a moment...
It didn't take long for Sherlock to find John. Actually, it wasn't difficult at all. John had ended up in the driveway of some bloke, who stumbled across him on his return home. Recognizing the sleeping fellow on his property as "that one chap in the papers with that detective", the man soon after rang Sherlock and pleaded with him to collect his friend. Sherlock hung up instantly when told John wasn't conscious. Half an hour later, he was pulling up in a cab.
"Thank God. I didn't know what to do with him," the stranger, who had been sitting on his porch, said in greeting to Sherlock.
"What you 
 done was called a medical team," Sherlock replied dryly, striding up to the unconscious form of his friend. He immediately observed that he had thrown up. He crouched down beside him.
"Oh-I suppose I could do that now—"
"Nonsense. I already have." Sherlock leaned down uncomfortably close to John's face as if to examine him. He looked ghostly pale. Sherlock's heart sped up and he grabbed his wrist. The relief at feeling a pulse was clear in his expression. He then moved to open one of John's eyelids. This caused him to wake. His eyes fluttered open, and he grimaced as he attempted to focus on the hovering face mere inches from his own.
"Sherlock," was all John managed to get out once he recognized the piercing blue eyes staring down at him. It had been too long since he threw up, and the nausea was back in full swing.
"You 
 aware you just vomited all over somebody's driveway?" Sherlock said, attempting a smile to keep things lighthearted.
John groaned and covered his face with his hands. "Bloody hell, Sherlock. Just take me home, please."
"Very well. Come on, then." Sherlock grabbed John's arm and gently hoisted it over his shoulder, helping him to get his feet under him.
"Thank you," John breathed as they slowly stood up.
"Of course," Sherlock replied quietly. John felt weak and unsteady underneath his hands, making Sherlock realize just how sick he was. He glanced down at him as they made their way to the car. He had a grimace on his face that indicated he was trying not to vomit all over Sherlock, his eyes shut tight to the world. Sherlock's concern grew, but he attempted to brush it off. Clearing his throat, he announced, "So, it was Mrs. White in the Conservatory with the rope, was it?"
John groaned. "I am 
 going to ask how you knew that, so bug off."
Sherlock smiled. He was going to be fine.
