Sherlock always sits cross legged and This confuses John the most When He tries to Deduct like Sherl.
John(exclaiming) : "Whats with the Posture of Legs?"
Sherlock(know it all but calm tone ) : " Seriously? My Legs ? Well John Thats a Great way to Make me avoid Saying That how much you wanted to be Oh so Perfect! But You weren't. "
John (giving up yet defensive ) : " Well No , I come to Perhaps Notice that You always Sit Cross legged when I , umm in charge or explaining. "
Sherlock(low mocking tone) : " Well , Better way to Put this is When you miserably fail to Be Me. "
John (tired) : " Never Mind. "
Sherlock (annoyingly) : " Oh i do ."
John (reminiscing) : " I might now Know what others were explaining to me back in the time when i wanted to move in with You. "
Sherlock (trying to convince) : "And Do you happen to wish to Share it? "
John (heavily breathing out ) : " Oh I better not."
John (super satisfied with annoying of sherlock ) : "Yup Exactly , This is what i wanted to tell you that Whatever they said made no sense and was stupid only. "
Sherlock (calmly ) : " Ah , sometimes You exceptionally do the needful. And You are good at this. "
John (heavily breathing out ) : " Oh I better not."
John (heavily breathing out ) : " Oh I better not."
John (chuckled) : " Helps when you are from Army Background. "
Sherlock (boosted voice ) : "And a Brilliant , Patient Doctor. "
John (fact voice ) : "Surgery does make humans less angered and more calm ."
Sherlock (questioned john ) : " Could you tell How you would feel when suddenly you would've to perform surgery in th battle? "
John : " Don't remind me. "
Sherlock : " Okay , No deal , I was just asking for this research i am doing on human brains reaction to different situations and where i need to know the sudden mixed boost of chemicals and toxins of the nature of . "
John (left head bend over to face sherlock ) : " Shush down! will you? "
Sherlock(nodding) : "Right"
Sherlock stood up to go grab a coffee mug.
John is resting his head on the sofa chair . He is breathing heavily taking breaks.
Sherlock has his Black coffee and his nicotine patches on his hand. Sherlock pass by the Kitchen area to Sitting area.
Sherlock (simple tone ) : " Maybe you can Just Vent out your anger on me."
John (confused) : " What?"
Sherlock (mild sarcasm) : "Your visible Hidden anger , Can vent it out . "
John (Chuckled) : " Try You? "
Sherlock (chuckling) : "Scared?"
John (explaining his feeling ) : " I see no Point. Besides , I am not angry . Just Disappointed. of Myself."
Sherlock (understandably) : " Because You could not save Some more Lives, And Be more Peaceful. "
John (fact checking ) : " Deducing is your cup of Tea. "
Sherlock (sipping and answering ) : " It definitely is. "
John (getting to know ) : " Others don't like you because you can read them even if they don't want to. "
Sherlock (nodded) : " That makes them feel Vulnerable."
John (awfully broke tone ) : " I am only Upset because of the lives i couldn't save and the promise that broke due to it. and perhaps i feel really terrible because maybe i am a sympathetic fool. i just wish i was in the right mind that day. "
Sherlock sometimes felt very unarguably bad when he was not able to go straight up and hug his friend john.
Sherlock (consoling) : " John , Please be calm. I Should not have asked you about that. But it will not be of any use if you needlessly feel guilty. I can vouch that John You did your best. "
John (meekly) : " mm yes . "
Sherlock (confessing) : " I also understand .. that i lack miserably in keeping up or conveying that..i also ..do..care..with all my life and soul for people..in my.. life.. "
John (affirmly ) : " i knew it since forever the friend i got in you . "
Sherlock (looking far away sideways) : " Then perhaps you are ..the greater deducing person in the room. "
John (completing) : "as i knew what others don't about you . and i see the very human in the great sherlock holmes.the one which world finds it difficult to get along or even pass a second near them. "
Sherlock (completing even further) : "The one who sees through anyone and anything at any past hour. Who is so heartless to even have condolences to victim that he uses for his research or even worse he never hesitates in making people realize their mistakes quite a few times in seconds. "
John (streching it ) : "Acts all Rough and tough till the end of the act. Makes deduction abouth who's seeing whom.! Always Disturbing The Landlady and yet being the one caring for her in the whole entire world. Never Backs when its on his Unsung Friends which by the way is me . Has Emotions shoved down the mind palace may be little too down. Doesn't likes to be beaten by his arch enemy or Mycroft. "
Sherlock(appalled) : " The Godly Deduction by Dr. John Watson . One of Era . One of a Kind."
John (joyfully) : "Whom to Blame ! And Whom To be thankful. You . "
Sherlock Has a Smile on his face which is pure perfection as A man like him only Smiles when there is huge Meaning and Sense behind it.
John (reassuring) : " And i Know this Stays Between us."
Sherlock nodded .
John stood up to go to his Room.
Suddenly He gets A Hug. A powerful Embrace.
It takes a Second or two for him to knows its Sherlock in his embrace.
John Reached the Back of Sherlock and Patted him like he knew it was his evergreen thought eversince.
The Embrace brought the great detective the calmnes the soothing feeling that not even doing thousands of deduction on same day. Or The ruthless murders with no clue or Outrightly saying stupid left behind hints of preparator can give.
Sherlock shuts his mind palace. Shuts his Ravenous brain that he made since he remembers anything. Sherlock is focusing on the way john is being with him. He is very much interested in being not considered as Grumpy old Rude Person.
Sherlock feels Worthy of this Embrace. Sherlock has not been able to connect with anyone like he did With 
 Sherlock is born to be difficult and rude from people's point of view. But He is a Baby at heart. Generally getting Bullied by others he can handle But that Bunch Load is Now making him Stuck. Sherlock feels miserable. He respects Mrs Hudson very more than she knows. But can't tell her. Sherlock has Brotherwhom he admires and looks up the most. But the words and feeling are unsaid.
John.
Its not Just John.
The John.
The 
.
The 
.
His Buddy. His only friend. His Partner. His Risky Guy. The One Who would Bail him out if need be.
The one who would Run across Molten Lava to reach to him. The one who know is Sherlock is Lying over the phone. The one who trusts with his life at stake .
John Feels Sherlock Can stay as long as he wants. Cause he knows The dwelling Emotion of Sherlock Holmes he had kept it in while since his birth. The one Guy who is strong yet Weakens when the world wishes him to be A Freak. The Guy who can rip apart anyone is also a humant that needs tender humanity.
Author Note / : Hey Readers!! . How are you all? I hope you all are doing great. How was the story?
I wanted to write about this one of a kind OS from so long. Now finally it is all yours to keep and Celebrate. Do let me know your precious thoughts. Half past of Year 2024 and i Have published two Oneshots on Sherlock. It feels alarmingly nice to write quite often.
 "Ab
The Atmosphere of 226 Baker Street was Changed. A dreamy Change. The City Might not know what happened but The Legends will know , Surely.
A new Chapter. A new Way of life.
For Sherlock.
Author Note / : Hey Readers!! . How are you all? I hope you all are doing great. How was the story?
I wanted to write about this one of a kind OS from so long. Now finally it is all yours to keep and Celebrate. The Oneshot i have written is very much close to me as i find it deeply emotional and sentimental. Also i wanted to write about the unsaid legend of both of them . Do let me know your precious thoughts. Half past of Year 2024 and i Have published two Oneshots on Sherlock. It feels alarmingly nice to write quite often.
