In July
John sometimes still had the urge to pinch himself. Just to check, you know, a coma dream sounded more plausible than actually being in a relationship with Sherlock Holmes.
No, not because Sherlock had no feelings, John had long ago learned better than that. Because Sherlock was amazing, a genius, gorgeous...you could add the whole thesaurus there, with all the nuances of greatness, and John was John. Good at his job, sure, and apparently a funny enough writer that people read through his blog. Yes, it was about Sherlock, but John used to have a history professor and can confirm: it doesn't matter how fascinating a story is, including conspiracies, murder and assorted GoT-worthy fare. The wrong person can make any tale sound exactly as riveting as watching paint dry.
Fine, maybe he was more tolerant than most about assorted science haunting his fridge. But then again, Sherlock could have found other people who didn't mind. Even people who'd outright swap experiment for experiment. John used to have a roommate in college, future neurosurgeon. Mice for him to train on weren't an uncommon finding in their freezer. Though, after the first time, Francis had learned to label everything properly.
Still, John's point stands. Sherlock could have found someone else. Maybe not picked one of the literal droves that were attracted by just his looks, not with his disposition. But he did have choices, and still he picked John. Possibly only out of convenience. John was, after all, right there.
But convenience isn't something that has ever been the highest priority for Sherlock. They wouldn't have lasted simply because it was easier than not. It had been, in reality, for something everyone and their mum noticed at first glance, shockingly complicated.
"I was biased, John" had been Sherlock's somewhat pouty justification for missing the obvious for an obscenely long time. (Mycroft would never let him live that down.)
John needed no excuse for his blindness (he was, after all, not a genius) but apparently he needed one for his long bout of cowardice. Which was kinda unfair, because he was the one who eventually snapped and kissed Sherlock senseless. After that, no mistake was possible. (It was a mystery how more people didn't try to kiss Sherlock to shut him up. John was very happy it wasn't a common occurrence, but surely the temptation must be almost overwhelming for so many.)
"You shot me down as soon as we met, I tried to behave," was his explanation. In fact, the plan had been to beg Sherlock to delete it if his bout of madness was, predictably, unappreciated. The way the sleuth had moaned into his mouth had been a good hint that he didn't need to.
So maybe John went with his whims sometimes. Some days it meant marking Sherlock and being marked when they tumbled in bed. Lasting evidence. Lucky him, Sherlock...what was the opposite of minded?
Not that John would be caught dead by his eloquent boyfriend saying it - or writing it, thank you very much - but that one random post that said any word could become a verb if you weren't a coward had stayed with him. So, yeah, Sherlock enthusiasted nibbling and sucking on him until truly impressive hickeys bloomed on his skin. Passionated about it, even.
John held in a chuckle. If he did, his boyfriend would ask what that was about, and he didn't want to horrify him.
Other days, John's whims took a different shape. He'd go and change something in the flat. Because with the life they lead, John eventually falling into a coma wasn't entirely out of bounds. But when did his dreams start? The state of the flat would have let him know if their relationship was part of the dream or not.
Yes, perhaps it was stupid. Perhaps he'd seen Inception too many times. But it wasn't like he was going to shoot the walls. He could fiddle with his living space if he wanted. Whether he suspected the reason or not, Sherlock had never complained.
Still, most of the time these changes weren't too flashy. He did like the flat in the first place. But then one day an old friend was moving and she asked John to help her out. Lydia wasn't an ex, they'd known each other back in high school. She'd left a few cheerful comments on the blog, and now that she was coming to London too - worked her way up to the BBC's main studios — she'd asked him. Cheekily promised him that she'd make sure the coverage of their cases would be to their satisfaction if she could borrow his muscles.
Even if she hadn't told them that, honestly, John would have agreed.
"I assume you don't want to tag along," John had told his love, receiving a huff. But when he'd assumed Sherlock would have kissed him goodbye before letting him go, things had heated up. John had almost - almost - called it off, but he had a conscience. And, now, yet another impressive collection of imprints of Sherlock's teeth on his skin. Totally on purpose, too. As if either he or Lydia could be tempted by each other, unless they stumbled on a reminder not to. He'd be offended if he didn't like it so much.
Even when it turned out that they didn't just have to move a few boxes, but that John had been roped into accompanying her to buy most of what she'd need in the first place.
"I'll be quick," Lydia promised. Yeah, as if. John texted Sherlock about the bait-and-switch, and bemoaned that he had too much restraint to turn around and fuck off.
- Want me to come and make her regret it? SH - arrived immediately.
-Not yet.
The idea had just popped in John's mind. Maybe he'd find yet another new detail for the flat. If Lydia was browsing plates, or desks, or what...she couldn't argue if John looked around too, could she?
The things on offer were a little more on the weird side than John expected. Then again, they weren't at IKEA. Lydia would probably have informed him that was the entire point, because art, or something like that, but John was an expert at keeping his opinion to himself. What his eyes said...well, that could always be denied.
He'd almost decided that anything here had to hit the spot between ridiculous and pretentious. Maybe he should suggest Mycroft come browse? He barely held in a snort at the thought...but then he saw it. A floor lamp, technically.
Actually a skeleton (not a real one, small mercies), light shining out of its skull.
There was no way John could resist it. Surely there'd be a corner of the van left when Lydia was done?
Lydia was slightly horrified by his choice. But she did owe him. So long as he kept that thing away from her, she wasn't going to protest. That was a condition he was more than willing to accept.
He texted Sherlock again.
- It turns out I don't need saving. It'll take us a bit still, but I promise. Wait for me like a good boy and you'll have a nice surprise.
- I'm not a dog. SH - his boyfriend replied. Obviously.
- Never said that. Be good for me, yeah?
-Yeah. - There was no emoticon, but John didn't need it to feel the pout halfway across London.
Honestly, the pet play nuance hadn't occurred to John until Sherlock had pointed it out. He could be dumb. But he knew his boyfriend, and he knew praise worked like a charm. Promised surprise or not (he really wanted to see Sherlock's face when he saw this), Sherlock would be good, once told in no uncertain terms what it meant. He'd be damn near perfect.
Once Lydia was happily settled in her new flat, John promised he'd return the van she rented himself...as soon as he got his new purchase home. He'd rather not bring it on the Tube.
"Yeah, let's not traumatise the good people of London," she agreed.
"Heh. It's not actually a skeleton, you know."
"Yeah, John, I know. I hadn't even considered that option. And now I am. Ta." She rolled her eyes, ushering him out. "If I have nightmares, I'm blaming you."
"Sure." He'd taken responsibility for worse. And frankly, now he was too eager to care.
Lugging that thing up the stairs was noisy. John could feel the door open - of course Sherlock would come and check - and on a whim, he yelled, "Stay!" His boyfriend wasn't on the landing yet, and he'd rather the first impression not be from ten steps away.
"Not a dog!" came the shout.
"Don't ruin my surprise!"
The door closed again pointedly.
"Sorry," he called, opening the door himself, the lamp peeking out from behind him.
"Good," Sherlock said, turning to him. His eyes strayed from John to the thing, sparkling with surprise.
John took a step aside, "Couldn't resist it. Made me think of you."
"Jawn." Soft., just like the kiss that followed.
"Like your surprise?"
"Yep." Sherlock moved it to a corner, and turned it on, grinning. "It's, huh...big."
John shrugged. "Well. Christmas in July?"
"That makes no sense. And nobody was killed for this..right?"
John laughed. "Yeah, not your type of Christmas. No dead bodies, sadly, But, well, it's a thing in books or - Harry said that once, anyway. And I thought it sounded nice."
"You should have told me. I don't have anything for you." Sherlock bit his lip.
"I didn't do it to receive anything. Besides, you do." John grinned.
"Oh, do I?" The smirk on Sherlock's lips was the hottest thing John had ever seen. His sexy, genius boyfriend. Who loved random fake skeletons, and true murders even more.
"Guess we'll have to see." He led towards the bedroom, sure he'll be followed.
If everything felt slightly unreal sometimes...the question was more why only sometimes.
John thought that day's events would be soon forgotten. Sure, the lamp stood there as a reminder, and its shine in the evenings did occasionally make him or Sherlock smile. But so long as it didn't disappear, John was all for leaving it - and the day - behind.
Now, the following night...he wasn't about to forget that. He did, after all, have something to apologise for. And he did it the best way he knew how, which was also the way he loved most. The one that meant he got to see Sherlock come, over and over again. If the man was gorgeous any day, thrashing in rapture...Yeah, that spectacle was what John lived for. (And occasionally killed for, but criminals should seriously know better by now. You didn't threaten Sherlock Holmes.)
It was just like his genius boyfriend, though, to hang onto a random detail and bring it up days later. Almost fifteen, actually.
"In July."
"Huh?" Was John's intelligent answer. Forgive him for not following before his morning coffee. Sure, it was still July - the 24th, said his phone - but what should have happened?
Were they awaiting a package or what?
"Just in July. There are no more specific requirements. For the Christmas - thing." Sherlock offered him a cup. Which John was going to trust had not been doctored in any way. Or at least, not in any harmful way. That'd be enough.
"Well, I certainly hope not. It was a random idea, really." He shrugged, taking a long sip.
The taste was perfect. John sighed happily.
"No need to wait, then."
"Definitely not." John didn't know what was up. But he would be wondering what to expect from him all day - or however long Sherlock might decide to wait otherwise - and he'd like to be able to focus on menial things like his job. Misdiagnosing someone because he kept thinking about what Sherlock was up to was more than a bit not good.
From one of his dressing gown's pockets, Sherlock extracted a small, pretty package. John accepted it graciously...and then tore into it like a five year old. He wasn't expecting anything in particular -knew better than to try and deduce Sherlock's actions, ta very much - but still, what he saw made his jaw drop. A bunch of burnished brass keys, on a hexagonal ring. "Can I ask what they're for, honey?"
"The other day, I went to ask Mrs. Hudson for - never mind that." From Sherlock's look, John was betting on biscuits that he'd entirely scarfed down by the time John was home.
""These...aren't for 221A," he said.
"Don't be stupid, John, I don't want you to move out!" Sherlock sounded appalled.
"I wasn't planning to," John assured, kissing away his boyfriend's grimace. "So, Mrs. Hudson?"
"She was watching - something very, very silly. I 'm pretty sure I lost a few braincells just by being in the room. Anyway, one of the characters said, "If there's a key...then there must also be a lock." And now you've lost a couple of braincells too."
John couldn't have stopped grinning if it were life or death. "So they're for what? Your heart?"
Sherlock blushed in the most adorable way. "You already have that, you know. No, I've...inherited them. Inherited a lot of things, really. My name comes from a grand-uncle...I've never cared to check the precise relationship. Anyway, he ended his life in a cottage in Sussex. Keeping bees, actually. So, these are the keys to the lock of the door of the first Lock...ugh. It's a tongue twister. But. If we ever want to take a holiday, out of London... That home's used to having a Sherlock and his boyfriend. "
"Boyfriend? Wait, wasn't it..."
"My ancestor was smart."
John laughed. "Of course he was." He kissed Sherlock. Just because he could.
"Was that a yes to the occasional trip?" Sherlock asked, grinning.
" As if I wouldn't follow you anywhere, and you know it." John huffed.
"Maybe I do. It turns out, John, that you're the exception to most of my rules. It's not always boring to hear the obvious. Not from you."
"That is the sweetest thing you've ever said." John kissed him again. "But I gotta get ready now. Work won't do itself."
Sherlock pouted a little. "I thought..."
"Let me anticipate it a little. We'll go this weekend if you want." John gave him his softest smile.
"And if there's a case?"
"Then I'll take a day off next week to christen...well, rechristen the place. In the name of perfect Locks. Sounds good?"
Sherlock kissed him, again. The sleuth's moan John swallowed sounded like a yes.
Damn, he needed to get ready. If he didn't leave, he was never going to be able to get back...and thank Sherlock properly for his wondrous gift. Yeah, good plan. Unless someone was murdered in the meantime...which would both hasten seeing Sherlock again, and tragically delay showing him the full extent of his gratitude. Oh well. What would happen would happen. Not like anyone controlled London's criminals. Not anymore, and thank God for that.
