The bothy
by
Whashaza
"Hey." Giles opened the door, turned so he could enter. "Was a bit of a surprise when I got your call."
Sherlock gave a brief nod. In his hands, the notebook he held felt heavy. He put it on the table in the entrance way as he shed his coat. Hang it up on the coat stand as he unwound the scarf around his neck. Giles didn't push him. Left him to it as he made his way to the kitchen behind the psychiatrist.
"How's your family?" Giles asked as he switched the kettle on.
This brought a smile. Genuine and without pretence. "Evangeline is two and just …brilliant." He met Giles' gaze. "My son is doing well." He went silent. "He's reaching his adjusted milestones and the paediatrician is happy with his progress. It wasn't an easy start but he's a fighter."
"Mycroft told me." Giles said gently. "Eight weeks early. Looks like he couldn't wait to join his sister."
He gave a small chuckle. "Would've preferred that he stayed. But it's all good now."
Giles opened the lid of a tea pot and poured the water in. Allowed the tea to steep as he gathered cups and saucers. Added milk and sugar to the tray. Picked everything up as they changed venues, moving to his study.
"And Molly?"
"She's doing well." He grabbed the notebook on the way into the study. Held on to the book in his hand as he seated in the chair that had been so familiar to him while he and Giles had worked through his trauma. Giles poured the tea. Gave him his cup and he left the book balanced on his knee. Took a sip of the hot drink. It had been made just the way he liked it. Even after two and half years, Giles still remembered.
They finished their tea in silence. It was comfortable. No words needed in this place. When he was finally done, he sighed. Relaxed as his hand curled around the book. Giles gave him space as he gathered his thoughts. The words he wanted to say. He smoothed the front cover. A wistful smile crinkled the corners of his eyes.
His life was defined by before and after Oliver. So many things that have changed because of one man.
"Molly, uhm…when we were in NICU with Micheal wanted me to write down what happened at the bothy. It…" He struggled. Opened and closed the book. Pressed his lips together. Looked up and searched the bookcase. Found Dumas amongst all the textbooks. It grounded him more than anything. He patted the book on his lap. Squared his shoulders, much like John would do before they'd step into battle.
"It was …cathartic. I was finally able to make sense. See the truths I had hidden from myself." He gave a chuckle. "Molly talked about acceptance. Forgiveness. For my children…" he closed his eyes. "I want to show them how strong their mother is. What she had done for …me. So, I wrote this. A treatise as it will. A journey that showcases what Oliver took from me. But I'm hoping…" His face open as he allowed Giles to see his sincerity. His own strength borne out of fire, tempered by Molly. Held up by John. And protected by his brother.
"…I'm hoping it also shows what I've gained."
"Very well." Giles said. Leaning back and indicating with his hand. Silent. Sherlock opened the book to the first page. Cleared his throat and started to read.
Waking up in the middle of the grassland with Molly behind him was unexpected. He hadn't known what to make of it. She was the last person he would've expected. If they were bringing others into this little game of theirs, he would've assumed John to be the logical choice.
Molly…Molly was a big unknown. He knew her. Could tell her that she had spent the previous evening at home, eating popcorn and watching some silly romance flick with her cat curled on her stomach. Could tell her that she had washed her hair yesterday morning, using the no-name Tesco brand of strawberry shampoo. Could tell her that she was stumped by the last case that was lying on the slab back at the morgue. He could see all that and so much more, her life an open book before him.
What he couldn't tell her is why his mystery captors had decided that she would be a good choice. She was…timid. Breakable. Easily manipulated.
Surely she won't last all that long out here in the elements. He was already taking her perceived weakness in consideration. Working out how much less he would now be able to traverse as they tried and escaped. Felt frustration boiling at the thought that she was probably chosen so that he'd fail. Or delay his escape.
"Why you?" He had voiced it out loud. Didn't tempter his mouth or body language. She had seemed as confused as he was. At least they had that in common.
When they had started walking, he had realised that he had underestimated the petite, mousy pathologist. He had swallowed his own words and pride when she had slipped silently under his shoulder. Had propped him and kept him going as his fever and sickness took hold.
As they sat in front of the fence, his body burning up he had realised that there was more to Molly Hooper than the stumbling, stammering woman he had always seen. A core was hidden inside of her. A strength that was silent.
He revised a few opinions he had of her at that point as he slipped into unconsciousness.
When he woke at the bothy, a needle in his arm and Molly lying on the floor beside him; he realised that he wasn't the protector. He wasn't the one with all the answers. He was …weak. Pathetic. Peeing in a bottle while Molly looked after him.
He hated himself then. Angry at his own body's betrayal and he wasn't ashamed to say that he took it out on her. She surprised him again. Held her tongue for that first day as he harassed her. Pushed and was just plain miserable. And then she came back. Told him off. Walked away and left him. John in his head smirked. Told him he deserved every bit of it as Molly let him wallow in his own self-pity. He told himself to buckle up. What was his transport to his intellect? Nothing. His body shouldn't dictate how he felt. What he felt. Sentiment. He sneered at it.
But it hadn't taken away the bacterial infection that ravaged his body.
And then it had passed and Oliver had made himself known. As the man had turned, allowing him to scan the man fully, he had realised how much trouble he and Molly were in. Oliver was intelligent. He had done this before. He was a psychopath. The moment Goon 2 hit Molly because he resisted and rebelled at making the video, he understood why Molly had been taken. He applauded Oliver for his brilliance. Saw exactly how this was going to play out as he sat down in front of the camera and did everything exactly the way Oliver wanted.
He was going to enjoy the mental sparring with the other man. Was already determining how and when he and Molly could escape. His mind palace vibrated with his options as it split and deviated into different branches.
If John was here…but it wasn't John. He revelled in the mental challenge of it all until Oliver dropped him off two days hike from the bothy with a deadline that was unattainable. Even so, he was determined to prove the man wrong. Determined to win at all costs.
Failure tasted of ash in his mouth as he stumbled his way into the bothy's yard. Heaving great big gulps of air, he watched as Molly Hooper was beaten to pulp. As he was held in the arms of two goons and Molly was a bruised, bleeding body on the ground, he looked up at Oliver. Anger and hatred vied for his attention. A white-hot pulse of it keeping track with his heartbeat. Oliver had stepped up to him. Had made sure that he had his full attention.
"I will return in two days. I want you to understand something very clearly, Mr Holmes. Are you listening."
"Yes." He had managed to snarl. Glancing down at Molly and back at the man who was responsible for it.
"Good. Now this is how it's going to go. You have a 200-metre radius around the bothy. You are allowed to move freely. Can do what you want within its confines. I don't care. But the moment you step over that threshold, I will know. There will be no second chances. No argument to be given. Molly Hooper will die and I will get John Watson to replace her. And if that is not incentive enough and you continue to break this rule, I will replace John Watson with your brother. Or that policeman, Lestrade. Or Mrs Hudson. Do you see where I'm going with this."
Fear was a sudden pit at the bottom of his stomach. He had never experienced it like this before. Not even with Moriarty at the pool.
"Mr Holmes?"
He had met Oliver's gaze. Saw his demise in the man's eyes. Saw that he would follow through. Knew then that unless his brother or John found him and Molly, he wasn't leaving this place any time soon. All the plans and branches that had stretched out in his head, shrivelled to dust. Left him gasping physically as he was suddenly confronted with …nothing. He couldn't see a way out. Couldn't see how he was going to beat Oliver. He was apparently too slow to respond because Goon 2 kicked Molly. He watched her body absorb the kick. Her response was an indrawn breath of pain. Her tears flowed freely. He surged against the hands holding him but it was futile. Oliver held up a hand and Goon 2 paused with his one foot drawn back for another kick. He studied Sherlock. Waited.
"I understand." He ground out. Relaxed in the hold of the men that was bruising his arms. Felt fatigue dragged him down and his shoulders slumped. His head started to droop and then he braced himself. Raised it and with vehemence snarled, "I will kill you."
Oliver laughed and it grated. The man didn't even have the decency to make a threat or even tell him off for the folly of his statement. Oliver indicated with his hand as he turned and left, taking his men with him. He watched as the helicopter lifted off before he scrambled his way to Molly.
The first run after his two-day trek was hard. Oliver had been clear on what he had wanted. They had stopped at a hill and he had pointed to a tor to the west of where they had settled down.
"You have an hour."
He had turned to the other man even as he automatically calculated the distance. Worked out angles and turned the maths upside down. Based on everything, he would make it easily enough.
"And if I don't." He had asked. Not that Molly's scars and body coloured blue with bruises weren't already evidence enough of his failure. But he needed Oliver to say it.
"You need more proof of what happens when you fail?" Oliver countered. Looking into the other man's eyes, he knew that there was no more to be said.
Fail and Molly suffers.
That is why he had always been adamant to John regarding sentiment. The danger it poses when you allow emotion to rule, allow your heart to dictate your actions.
He had swallowed his pride and had set off. Had comfortably done the distance in the time allocated. Goon 1 was waiting for him as he had stepped up to the tor, his muscles tight and still recovering from not only his illness but the two-day trek he had done to get back to the bothy. Back to Molly and failed.
"You get thirty-minute rest and then you go back."
He had thinned his lips, compressing them together as he glared at the man. Had wisely held his tongue while he thought of what he would do to the man once he was out of here. He systematically catalogued each of the vital touch points on the man's body. Imagined broken bones. Turned away so the man couldn't see the murder in his eyes.
Thirty minutes later, he set off again. Reached Oliver with ten minutes to spare. His muscles trembled but he stood in front of the man; controlled and shifting his own frustration deep down when Oliver glanced at his watch.
"You get a thirty-minute rest and then you go back."
He had closed his eyes. Could see the game for what it was. Understood exactly what Oliver was doing. Establish control. Establish boundaries. Watch him dance as he pulls the strings. Wait for him to rail against the unfairness of it all so he can hurt Molly again. Break down his defences until there was nothing left.
He wasn't going to let the man win. He was stronger than this.
Walking back the now familiar route, he found seven different ways to murder Oliver with just a spoon. It was …helpful. He ignored twitching muscles and dutifully drank the water bottle that Goon 1 provided him. Trekked his way back when the allotted rest time was reached.
He did the route three more times. His muscles and energy reserves completely depleted – which seemed to be what Oliver was aiming for. But the man seemed pleased that he hadn't fought him over this mindless activity. Had done what was asked without complaint. The inside of his mouth was bitten raw as he had held his words to himself. Oliver would never know the cost as he had done what was required. His vow foremost in his mind. To protect Molly. To do what is needed.
He could do this.
The words felt empty though. It was day one and already he was finding it hard not to break Oliver's nose. Feel the cartilage break as he hits him. Be snarky. Lash back verbally at the other man. The only thing keeping him back from doing any of those was the fact that he knew Molly couldn't endure another beating. John would've been proud at his self-restraint. At the same time, his admiration was rising for the genius behind what Oliver was doing. On how he was doing it. He didn't know how to reconcile both his hatred and admiration. It had been easy when the victims were nameless cases that he and John solved. Now…now it was different.
He carefully kept hold of the Ensure that Oliver had Goon 1 hand to him, the breeze from the helicopter as it rose, whipping his hair into a frenzy. He stayed where he was as it disappeared over the horizon. Contemplated tomorrow. The next day and the day afterwards. Felt dread settled in the pit of his stomach as he realised just how screwed they were.
No-one knew where they were. He didn't. How the hell was his brother going to find them? John…John wouldn't stop looking but how do you find something that has no starting point.
"Sherlock?"
He sniffed. Set his face and then gave her a half smile as he turned. Showed her the bottles. "Got some more food." He said, for lack of anything else to say. Molly looked at the four bottles. He could see her make the mental calculations. His own stomach had already contracted at the thought of going hungry. It wasn't enough. They had already gone a day without food.
One bottle a day until the next challenge. He looked away. Focused on the well. The grassland beyond. Felt the weight of those four bottles in his arms.
"Well, okay then. You want me to take them inside?" She asked, with a false cheer.
"Yes. I uhm…I need to clean up." He finally said, pushing the bottles into her arms. Ignored her grimace as he turned from her to the well. The door closed almost silently behind him and he leaned onto the well wall. Head down. Too many things were going through his brain. Too much to process. He couldn't…
He swallowed a sob. Blinked and then he stood up straight. Pulled the bucket from the well and undressed. Shivered in the cool of the afternoon that was sinking towards dusk. Upended the bucket over his head as he washed away the sweat with water. Dunked himself in the same way two more times. Sat on the wall and watched the sun dip as he drip-dried in the ever-present wind.
He finally dressed and went inside. Molly had added logs to the fire and it was toasty inside the bothy. He laid down on the mattress without a word, closed his eyes and pretended to sleep. Later, Molly would massage his calf muscles after he had a little self-pity party outside. He had sneered at his own weakness. Had kept it to himself until he fell asleep again.
They had waited outside when they heard the helicopter. Molly next him, his back against the door of the bothy as they watched the helicopter land. Oliver gave him a brief nod in acknowledgement. Apparently pleased that Sherlock had headed his earlier command to wait outside. He glanced down at Molly. The wound on her eyebrow still scabbed over, the bruises on her face darkened and only starting to fade a little now. He walked to the helicopter without protest as Goon 2 followed after Molly into the bothy. The blindfold settled over his eyes and he took a deep breath as the whine of the blades started up. Kept his body straight, his hands on his knees as he tried to see if he could determine their destination in relation to the bothy. West, east, north or south. It was hard but it kept his mind busy.
He had another run to do. This time it was a straight climb up a sloping hill that was deceptive in its incline. His muscles burned as he pushed himself. Focused all that he had on doing everything Oliver wanted. He did it twice more. Got back into the helicopter, put the blindfold on and fell asleep on the way back.
Oliver gave them another blanket and no food. He didn't let the disappointment show as his stomach rumbled. That night he slept through, too tired for nightmares.
It was a two day wait, of drinking water to still the hunger pangs. Both he and Molly lacked energy to do much more than sit outside in the sun and pretend that their stomachs weren't growling. Pretend that everything was going to work out.
He couldn't switch off his brain. Could see the logical conclusion to Oliver's game plan around their food. Their needs. The blanket is a good indication that Oliver was going to control every aspect of their lives going forward. He leaned back, stared up at the sky. Grey and overcast, the smell of rain in the air. Molly had tried small talk and he had snapped at her. Told her that she just shouldn't go there. It wasn't her forte.
She had cried and he had ignored her. He didn't know what to do. Felt out of his depth as she had walked away. Hallucination John had berated him. Told him off and told him to apologise.
He held off until later that night as they sat in silence next to each other, watching the fire dance on the logs while the rain splattered against the roof. She was stiff, anger and grief still very much evident.
"I'm sorry." He didn't look at her. Drew lines on the floor of the bothy by the mattress. Imagined the tracer lines on his wall at 221 B Baker Street. Saw the lines connecting Oliver and his men. Moriarty. His brother. All of it interconnected somehow. For now, a very incomplete diorama that didn't make sense.
He laid down. Patted the spot and Molly sighed. He folded his body around her. Held her close and pretended that this wasn't his life right now.
His third challenge earned them three bottles of Ensure. They downed the first one as soon as the helicopter lifted away. It didn't do anything on the hunger pangs. The want and need for food that he could chew was unending. He tried to chew the drink. Failed miserably when he realised what he was doing and didn't look at Molly when his stomach growled right after he had chucked the whole bottle down. Pretended his desperation wasn't there even as he filled the bottle with water, shook it and drank the last diluted dregs of it.
Molly didn't say anything.
The run after that, he climbed a mountain. Managed to do what Oliver wanted and earned them a towel and soap. He would've preferred food. Imagined John's risotto. Or Mrs Hudson's Full English. Thought about sitting at Angelos and gulfing down a whole plate of pasta.
He stopped thinking when he realised that his stomach juices were churning and his mouth watering. Knew that in his memories lay insanity.
His stomach a constant, gnawing ache. Physically hurting.
He dug a hole behind the bothy after carefully measuring out steps to distract himself. Built a toilet seat. After that, he went to bed. Slept. His energy depleted. Too tired to contemplate a way out of this mess.
The day after, he realised that Molly was about to have her menses. She was moody. Tried to ignore her own body's needs but it was obvious to him. He fumbled his way through trying to explain to her that it was completely normal. She didn't appreciate his words and he was at a loss as he entered the bothy. Saw his bandages and the nearly acquired towel and soap. Sudden insight and he knew that Oliver had somehow predicted this. Had given Molly a way to keep herself clean.
He sat down. Thought about what he knew about pads. Enjoyed the mental challenge as he fashioned a crude version. He managed to make two. Left them outside by the well with the towel and soap.
Molly didn't say anything when she came inside much much later. He laid down, patted the mattress and folded her in his arms. Held her close as sleep took him. Pretended like hell that it was for her benefit and not his own.
The next time Oliver came, he stumbled on his way to the helicopter. His hunger was now a constant hollow in the centre of his stomach. He felt dizzy. His muscles cramping. All signs that his body was starting to consume itself. His energy reserves were gone. Not eating and nights spent awake solving cases was a distant past. Now he couldn't even manage to stay awake after the sun went down.
His admiration of Oliver's brilliance once again vying with his growing hatred.
He slept all the way. Had no idea where they were or how long it had taken when they landed and he woke with a start.
The lake wasn't small. He followed Oliver, the two goons behind him as they made their way to a boat house. He automatically catalogued the mountains and landmarks around the lake. Wondered what Oliver had in mind as they entered the boat house.
"Clothes off."
He gulped. Eyed the two goons. This…this was madness. Hypothermia very probable.
"The water couldn't be more than ten degrees." He finally said. Glaring at Oliver.
Goon 1 didn't wait for an invitation. He lashed out, hitting him solidly in the solar plexus. He doubled up, wheezing as he tried to get air back into his body. Grimaced but didn't say anymore as he slowly started on the buttons of his shirt. Shrugged it off and then slipped out of the socks and shoes he had been provided. His trousers followed and he was left standing, shivering beside the boat in nothing more than his pants.
Goon 3 gathered his clothes and walked away with them.
"Get in the boat, Mr Holmes."
He had no choice. His body was starting to marble into red, white and blue. He sat down against the boat's gunwale, drawing his knees up as close to his chest as possible. The shivers were constant, his teeth chattering as they set out on the lake. It wasn't a long ride. Ten minutes or so but he had lost time as he had pulled everything inside and had leaned his head on his knees, trying to eke out some warmth as the wind buffeted them. The sun was out but it made no difference.
"Mr Holmes."
He looked up from his position. Oliver must've said his name more than once. He hadn't heard him, his muscles were stiff with cold, his shivers irritating and his teeth chattering. Oliver squatted down in front of him, a hand pushing his hair away from his forehead. He moved his head, tried to get away from the unwanted touch but all it ended up was Oliver's fingers curling tight into his hair, holding his head in place.
"You will not pull away from me, Mr Holmes. Do you understand."
He closed his eyes. Stilled himself and then opened them to look Oliver in the eye as he gave a brief nod.
"Good. Are you listening?"
"Yes." Even his words were shaky. He blinked. Focused.
"This is how it's going to go, Mr Holmes. You have certain challenges to complete. Those challenges will have criteria associated with them. Parameters if you will. You will adhere to those parameters. I have punters out there betting that you won't be able to follow through. Some of them can set the parameters. We are the house. If you fail to adhere, we lose money. That is not acceptable. Do you understand."
What the …hell. It seemed his 'training' was over. That what he'd been doing up until now for the last two weeks, had been leading up to this.
Oliver seemed to think he understood. Rose and motioned to Goon 1 who passed him a camera. He squinted; one eye closed when the flash went off on the first photo. His hands balled into fists as the next flash went off. All his brain supplied him with was all the cases he had worked on where the walls of some serial killer were covered in the photos of their victims. The look of abject terror on their faces.
He swore. Loudly and managed to get to his feet, reaching for Oliver. A fist slammed into his kidney. It brought him back to his knees as he threw up bile onto the deck, heaving through the pain that radiated from the small of his back in concentric circles outward.
"Not acceptable behaviour, Mr Holmes." Oliver calmly stated. "Now please get up and stand by the transom."
Oliver muttered as Sherlock slowly got to his feet and moved to the back of the boat. Stood with his hands in front of his body as he was manoeuvred by Goon 3 until Oliver was happy. Didn't look at the camera as the flash went off.
"Good." Oliver said when he was finally finished, having taken three more photos from different angles. "Now these are the parameters for this game…"
It was …insane. But he didn't say anything anymore. Kept his mouth shut and got into the water. His breath stolen that first few seconds as he got ready. As Oliver counted down the seconds and then it started.
In the end, he learned a few things.
Oliver expected nothing less than perfection.
His own wants didn't matter.
Molly got hurt if he didn't do what Oliver demanded.
He tallied the cost the next day as he lay under the blankets, still only clad in his pants. Still cold. Frozen to his core. Besides leaving him on the floor, Oliver had left more Ensure. An extra bottle this time. He didn't question why. He spent the whole day under the blankets by the fire. Kept asking Molly to keep the fire as hot as possible. Drank the Ensure she gave him but didn't say or do anything else. Went into his mind palace and went back into the room he had created. Disappeared there for the rest of the day.
Molly coaxed him out gently. Made him go out to the well. Helped him wash. Pushed him back inside and dressed him.
He had no pride left anymore. Hallucination John told him off. He finally relented and got up the second day. Did his part of their chores. Sat outside and drank his Ensure. Made four more plans to kill Oliver, this time involving knives.
He got quite inventive with one of them.
He tried talking to Molly about running away. Hiking their way out. Obviously it was never going to happen.
Oliver will kill Molly if he moves anywhere out of the 200-metre radius he'd given. He had no doubt whatsoever yet he still raved. Still fought. Still sneered in derision at Molly's perceived weakness. Compared her to John. What he and John would've done by now.
Deep inside himself he knew that even if John had replaced Molly, his decisions wouldn't have changed.
Oliver had him. Knew how to play him. The control – whether it was John or Molly didn't matter. He was still trapped. He tried to talk to Oliver about their food situation. That didn't go well. Oliver took everything away and he raved against the unfairness of it all. Understood finally and completely that Oliver held all the cards.
That had been sobering. Despair took a foothold. Fear was a constant companion now. Terror wasn't that far removed. Hope was slowly seeping away with every day.
The first time he failed, he railed against the unfairness of it all. He had stood, mouth gaping over as he looked over the moor that Oliver wanted him to traverse. At the parameter that he wasn't allowed to get wet. The criteria for success unattainable. He had swung around and had taken a threatening step towards the older man.
"That is not possible." He had said. "There is no route. It cannot be done."
Oliver had smirked. Taken the camera from Goon 3 and had him turn his back to the moor as he had proceeded with his ritual of taking photos. Sherlock went into himself. Didn't acknowledge any of the shame and helplessness he felt at the violation of his own privacy. He had blinked, coming to himself when Goon 1 had nudged him. He had focused on the way before him. Had made it halfway when he had stepped on a grass poll that gave way beneath his foot. He had gone down, splashing brackish water as he flailed and stumbled and finally sat up to his waist in the cold water. He had cried. Allowed the tears to flow as he hit his fists against the water. Against the grass polls.
It was too much. This was too much. It was inhuman. He couldn't…
His hunger and fatigue and just all of it culminating. There was no one here but him, the moor and the ever-present wind. For once, he wanted a warm bath. Wanted to soak and eat a full meal that he could chew. Drink tea and dunk biscuits even as John told him off. He wanted his violin. Wanted music and cases and Lestrade's frustration.
He felt ashamed of his breakdown even though no-one saw him. Felt that he should be stronger than this. He was Sherlock bloody Holmes. Not ordinary.
He wiped his eyes. Got up and walked the rest of the way out of the moor. His damp clothes are evidence enough of his failure.
Goon 3 seems to take particular pleasure in taking his failure out on his body. He lay at Oliver's feet and listened to Molly's screams while Oliver tallied the cost of his failure. It was a sobering reminder of the danger they were in. Of the cost Oliver collected at his failure.
That night he held Molly close as his bruises protested. Hunger was a distant ache that was now so familiar, he didn't recognise it anymore for what it was.
It was the first time he realised that her hair didn't smell of strawberry anymore.
He climbed a mountain and got a toothbrush and toothpaste. He gave it to Molly. She insisted that they share it. That keeping their teeth clean was important. He indulged her in the end.
It was mint flavoured and he hated it.
He failed another challenge. He had to traverse a valley and hills. A five-kilometre track over boulders and grass slick with rain. He fell at one stage, his shin black and blue and limped his way to Oliver.
Goon 3 slugged him proper. He closed his eyes against the darkness as he lay at Oliver's feet and pretended Molly's screams were the sound of an eagle that hung on the air currents kilometres away. He had woken up in the helicopter, sprawled on the floor; blindfold as ever encased over his eyes. He didn't fight when the darkness claimed him again.
He came to consciousness back in the bothy. To Molly fussing even as her face sported a new bruise and she grimaced every time she moved. He didn't say anything but pulled the blanket over his head and pretended to be back at Baker Street.
That night the nightmares kept him awake and he escaped outdoors. Sat under the stars and contemplated killing himself.
He managed two months and half. And then he couldn't take it anymore. He rebelled. Threw a proper tantrum and deliberately failed one of Oliver's so-called precious challenges. Ignored John's voice. Ignored his own logic that Oliver won't let it go. Ignored everything as he lashed out all of his frustration and anger and fear and despair. All rolled into one big surge of emotion.
Afterwards, he realised how little he had known of despair. What it truly meant to give in. What his body and mind had experienced and he knew that he would never belittle the effect of torture ever again. Would never question what it is to have your body and mind debased, pulled apart and taken.
Oliver had taught him well.
He did what he needed to after that. Anything and everything Oliver required of him. It didn't matter anymore. He would do what he had to keep Molly safe. It became his overarching goal. To never make Oliver angry enough that he'd do to Molly what he'd experienced.
He planned Oliver's murder.
This time it involved a toothpick and poison.
He climbed a cliff face and fell. Failed miserably and he lay in agony on the mattress with Molly holding his head as he vomited bile and Oliver watched. For a moment when he woke, he had thought that he was back at Baker Street. It had been surreal until the reality of it had hit him square in the gut.
The drugs had been nice even as he wrote out a plot on how to murder for Oliver's friend.
He spent the next afternoon, sitting outside in the sun while his body healed trying to craft a plan that would help him get more drugs.
He woke up once in the helicopter to realise that a whole morning had gone by and he had no idea what Oliver had made him do.
He had counted his bruises.
Took his Ensure and said nothing.
He and Molly didn't fight anymore. They tried to do the best they could with their situation. They played games. Pretended that desperation wasn't eating away at their resolve. Pretended that they both didn't struggle with nightmares. That he didn't disassociate. That sometimes whole days would go past with him in his mind palace, in the safe place he had created and he and John drank tea. Sometimes Lestrade was there and he felt really generous, he included his brother.
Both of them got very good at ignoring the way their skin stretched over their ribs. At the way their hips jutted. Pretended that prominent cheekbones and shrunken stomachs were normal.
Sometimes Molly will disappear. Walk off on the track in the morning and only return late afternoon, her cheeks flushed and her eyes bright.
He read all of her grief and frustration on her body. Her anguish and despair.
He didn't say a word.
He dreamt of John and a case. Ran through London as they chased bad guys.
Oliver came and he was back at the lake. This time swimming across the width of it. The actions familiar as his body's repetitive movement pulled him across the water. He lost himself in his mind as his arms moved and his legs kicked. Breathed in measured breaths, his fitness was as good as it was going to get with all of Oliver's challenges and his starvation and malnutrition.
Bruises didn't hurt anymore.
Oliver made another video. Despair was complete as he read the transcript. The thought of doing this for a year or more finally sunk in.
Maybe there was something to what Oliver was saying. To be trustworthy. To find a way to make this bearable.
That night he planned how to make Goon 2 a eunuch.
Their soap was low. He looked at the soapy liquid that was left in the rusting tin as he used it sparingly, washing his body. Worked out what he could do to please Oliver so he could get more soap.
He didn't question his motivations anymore.
On top of that list is a new shirt. His own barely there, tattered almost beyond repair. And maybe if they were really good, Oliver might dain it worthwhile to provide them with new underwear.
The last challenge before their escape attempt, he exceeded Oliver's expectations. When he was done, Oliver had an arm around his shoulders and he found he didn't mind. Showed him the numbers and it was the first time he had looked at a screen since he had woken up in the fields.
He couldn't get enough of the numbers. His fingers itching to take over and manipulate and manoeuvre the data. He was hungry for the stimulation.
Oliver gave him a kiss on his cheek and ruffled his hair. Closed the screen and he got home to Molly with two extra bottles of Ensure.
They drank the first one that afternoon as a treat while he considered giving Oliver what he wanted and becoming trustworthy.
He had underestimated Oliver. He had thought that once he was out of the estate, he and Molly would find a local. Find a phone. His brother would sweep in and kill Oliver. He wasn't above it all to think that he would stand by or even help if his brother wanted to torture any of the Goons. But Oliver; he would put a bullet in his head and not feel a second of remorse.
He daydreamed. He would be back in Baker Street with John and he was completely honest, maybe Molly. He couldn't imagine going to bed without her body next to his. Couldn't think of how he'd managed to sleep alone. Couldn't imagine his life without her in it.
It all floated away, his hope dissipating into nothingness as he climbed over the wall and stood in front of Oliver. Realised that Oliver had tracked them. Had known exactly where he and Molly were every minute of the day since their escape attempt.
All he thought about is that he would need to start again on winning Oliver's trust. That he probably isn't going to get his shirt anytime soon and he wasn't sure what he was going to do around soap or more food.
He thought about those three days. His imagination doing the rounds as he put Molly in his place.
He wanted to cry.
Afterwards, when he lay with Molly, her body in his arms and his upcoming challenge with the suggested drug – he decided that maybe getting lost in the haze of heroin wouldn't be so bad.
Then Moriarty arrived and changed everything.
John. John was the key. He knew it. Could see it. His brother would know it.
Hope rose for the first time to a place where he could actually feel it. And when John stepped into the bothy, he finally realised that he had a way out.
That Oliver had made his last mistake by involving Moriarty and getting John involved. He didn't care anymore what happened to him while he kept the consulting criminal busy. Even as he felt his ribs cave in and consciousness left him, he knew that even if he died right here, right now, that Molly would be safe.
That they were free.
Sherlock closed the book. Time had passed. He could see it was dark out now and the only sound in the room was the tick tock of the clock against the wall.
"Quite a story." Giles said in the end. "What do you want to do now?"
Sherlock felt the book. Riffled the pages.
"I don't know." He paused. His thoughts are going inward. Oliver's voice was silent even while he had read his story. John had silenced Oliver on the hill so long ago when he had taken him in his arms and overwritten Oliver's memory and touch. That had been his turning point.
He was living his life. He had his family. His cases. His friends. His brother.
"I want to burn it." He finally said. "Let it drift away in ashes. It is done. I don't need this reminder anymore. I know who I am." And it was true. He did know himself now. Understood his limitations. Understood his strengths.
Knew the power of forgiveness. Sentiment wasn't a weakness anymore. Sentiment was his saving grace. Had empowered him to endure. To stand strong. To become stronger.
"I have a Webber outside." Giles said. "We can do it now if you want."
He nodded. Just like his brother burning the couch. He stood and watched. Had revelled in it. They made their way to the back of the house and outside. He placed the book on the grill and then Giles had given him matches. He had started it. Watched the smoke curl up as the pages warped while the book burned. There was nothing left but a small pile of ash. Nothing left of his four months of hell.
"Thanks." He said, glancing at Giles while watching the ash swirl when a wind gust suddenly danced around them.
"No problem."
He nodded. Turned away and walked back inside the house, towards the coat rack. Put on his Bellstaff and wound the scarf around his neck. He put his hand out. Shook Giles' hand and without another word left him.
Knew he wouldn't be back. That it was done.
Oliver was truly dead and burned to ashes and he was free.
