Wedding Story
Abby lay on her stomach, sprawled on the couch and pouring over her notes for Ancient Architecture. Big Band Swing music played in the background and her toes danced along with the beat as she hummed along.
Study week had been a success so far. She had managed to complete her essay, work some more on her design for a garden-room/sun-room, had gotten halfway on her readings, and was thus well on her way to having everything she aimed for completed. This would probably be a first, she was never done this early.
Abruptly, she felt the chill on the back of her neck that one gets when someone is being watched. Looking calmly towards the door over her shoulder, she flinched slightly at seeing Sherlock standing there with that infuriating smirk on his face.
"Arrgh," Abby rolled her eyes and turned back to her books. "I hate it when you do that!"
It was just coming up on a year and a half since Abby had moved into flat 221c, and Sherlock could still sneak up on her. Recently, however, she was pleased to note that he could only get her to flinch, not jump or squeak the way she used to. Abby felt that he really needed to try something new, but was thankful he didn't. She wasn't sure her nerves could take it and it had taken so long to get used to him already.
"Hard at work I see," he made his way into the room surveying her home with a critical eye. "Ancient Architecture, how dull"
"You're dull," said Abby mildly. "What do you want?"
"I need you to accompany me to a wedding," Sherlock stated.
Abby just looked at him for a minute thinking he was attempting humor.
He wasn't.
"You what?!"
"Oh please, you know you heard right. John's cousin is getting married, you know, the one we helped, with ridiculous fashion sense. Well, John and I have been invited to the wedding and since he is going with Jocelyn or Kate, whatever one it was, I decided it might be less boring to have company."
"Why me?" Abby was slightly weirded out. Sherlock just rolled his eyes impatiently.
"Because I have few female acquaintances, none of whom I would ask to a wedding, except for you. You are tolerable, fairly intelligent, and won't take the invitation to accompany me to a wedding as a romantic interest."
Ah, that's why he didn't ask Molly...
"And before you ask why don't I just stay home and not go, the answer is I'm bored. Besides, John doesn't want me to go, and that fact alone means it could be entertaining. Now, will you come?"
"When is it?" Abby said with a cross between a sigh and a laugh.
"Friday, but you're on reading week so it won't affect your ability to go to class."
"Friday. Seriously! And you're just asking me now?" She looked at him in amazement.
He shot her his signature look that said 'Problem?'
"Sherlock, I don't have anything to wear and I can't afford anything right now! I'm a student, remember? If it weren't for Mrs. Hudson taking pity on me, cutting my rent in half, and feeding me every other day I would probably starve and be homeless!"
"Oh, don't worry bout that, Mycroft will take care if." He waved a credit card as he turned and strolled out of the room. "Come on."
Abigail paused a moment, staring after the tall man's retreating shadow. Then grabbing her coat and bag after pulling on some shoes, Abigail hurried out after Sherlock slightly bemused. He waited for her in a cab outside the flat.
"You're taking me shopping?" Abby asked while closing the door.
"Obviously."
"OK.." there was silence for a bit then "You must be really bored Sherlock"
"You have no idea.."
