Mrs Brooke Moriarty was the most beautiful woman in London; she worked with her husband in their rather unconventional business. On the surface they were consulting criminals, but underneath it was far more than that, they were taking down the criminal underworld one gang at a time, and in the process making their own, deadly web. It had been Brooke's idea first. The couple had met in university where Brooke was studying law.
As Brooke was a law student, she had been set on bringing justice to the world ever since she was a child. However as she learnt more about the judicial systems in English law she got more and more frustrated with it, or more to the point how unjust it all seemed to be. The poor seemed to be charged with any crime going and the rich, criminal gangs, literally got away with murder.
By the end of her first year she was utterly fed up, every man on campus and some of the girls had tried to get lucky with her, she had lost all desire to study law and still had 2 years left on her course, along with a massive debt she could never hope to pay off.
There was only one upside to her situation; she had spotted someone with some potential. He was the only guy on campus who hadn't had a go at trying to get her into bed and he had intrigued her. He was a small Irish boy who was sailing through his Master's in Mathematics, he had no friends; the only person who would put up with his presence was one of the army brats who had an unquenchable thirst for blood. There were all kinds' rumours about his previous school and a dead boy; he never tried to stop them, but let them build a kind of silent power that seemed to follow him around.
Brooke spent a whole day shadowing the Irish boy, turning up at all of his favourite haunts, before he got his army friend to turn on her. She was pinned against a wall, the larger boy holding her still as the Irish boy looked her over.
"What do you want?" He said she could feel his eyes tearing her apart, finding all of her weaknesses and working out the best way to destroy her.
"You." She said in a sultry tone, she was met by a snort from the larger boy.
"No really." The mathematician replied with a wild grin.
"I want to work with you, I have an idea, that will make the world a better place, but I need you and your mind." She said, slightly disappointed that her usual tricks hadn't worked.
"Sebastian, a word." The boy barked to the army brat who let Brooke go and followed his master. The girl stayed where she was, straitening her clothes and waited for the boys to come back. When they did the smaller of the two looked excited.
"Brooke isn't it?" He said, holding his hand out for a handshake. "Jim Moriarty, pleased to meet you. We can work up a contract tonight over dinner, 8 o'clock, I'll pick you up." Jim walked away, leaving a dazed Brooke try and decipher what had just happened.
